Laylla: Welcome to the 100th episode of Back on the Broomstick.

Chelle: Holy shit, it is 100.

Laylla: And for this episode, we are going to do a Stoned Witches Hour throwback with a little bit of a Back on the Broomstick witchy twist.

Chelle: You know, this is going to be great.

Laylla: We could call it the Stoned Broomstick Hour.

Chelle: Wait, what do we do, Laylla? Where are we?

Laylla: Maybe it's Back to the Stoned Hour.

Chelle: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.

Laylla: The Scared Witches Hour.

Chelle: Uh, Back on the Witches Hour?

Laylla: Witches on a Stoned Broomstick. Yeah, that doesn't even make sense. We're still workshopping it. We'll figure something out.

Chelle: Yeah, right? It's witchcraft. Welcome to Back on the Broomstick, a modern witches' spoken word grimoire, where two witchy friends from way back are reconnecting to their pagan roots after a long period of mundanity.

Laylla: Where we're rewalking the path of the wise and trying out all the latest spells, rituals, and magical theory in today's witchcraft and pagan practices.

Chelle: So grab your wand and your incense, your cauldron and your crystals, and join us as we get back on the broomstick.

Laylla: Hey witches, welcome to the 100th episode of Back on the Broomstick. I'm Laylla, and Chelle and I asked you guys what topic you wanted for our 100th episode, and a throwback to the Stoned Witches Hour won in a landslide. More than happy to bring you an episode of Stoned Witches on a Broomstick, where we'll be talking about a curse-throwing tarot reader from the Summer of Love in California and a creepy-crawly cryptid from Ohio.

Chelle: So, I'm Chelle, and we have a surprise for y'all tonight. This is going to be great. And for for any of our listeners that don't know what we're talking about, Laylla and I did a little ditty prior to Back on the Broomstick. We did, oh, maybe 75 episodes of a little podcast called The Stoned Witches Hour. A little true crime, a little hauntings, ghosts, cryptids. We talked about tea, we talked about weed, and we just we just overall had a really good time. People want to hear that. People have been listening to that. They've been going back to those old episodes, and the masses have spoke, damn it.

Laylla: The Stoned Witches Hour is more popular now than it was when we were putting it out, and we haven't put out an episode in about a year and a half. I'm sorry.

Chelle: That is so weird that it's more popular now than it was when we were doing it.

Laylla: We had a lot of fun doing that. You know, we started right after COVID, or during COVID.

Chelle: During COVID, yeah.

Laylla: It was mostly an excuse because I was living on the West Coast, you had moved to the East Coast, and we missed each other, and COVID had happened, so we kind of got back together again talking about paranormal shit and smoking really good cannabis and drinking good tea and talking about it.

Chelle: We were having some East Coast-West Coast wars, though, with our stories, I remember.

Laylla: For a little while, yes, we did. I'm pretty sure I won. I had the scariest stories. You said you won. I guess people are going to have to go back and listen and see who had—

Chelle: They like vote or something, yeah.

Laylla: Yeah, something.

Chelle: But, you know, then we we had a great idea to kind of focus more on the witchy aspect, which is where Back on the Broomstick got birthed from. But tonight, it is the Stoned Witches Hour, folks.

Laylla: Tonight, we are taking it back for our 100th episode. I've got a witchy story about a disgruntled tarot reader throwing curses at a party girl in the '60s. Chelle's got a—what did you come up with? I know you were having some trouble.

Chelle: I I was having some trouble, but I really I really wanted this to kind of focus around the time of year, and, you know, I was like, "Ooh, you know, our 100th episode, Groundhog's Day—"

Laylla: BOTB's two-year anniversary.

Chelle: This is like a trifecta of things. My Groundhog's Day story went a little awry, so I I do have another story, but I really do want to touch on the Groundhog's Day thing that I was trying to come up with.

Laylla: Yeah, Groundhog's Day, like the movie, you know, those weird time loop things are—

Chelle: I love time loops.

Laylla: Yeah, me too. That's really freaking fascinating. What did you find out about that?

Chelle: Now, first of all, who doesn't love Punxsutawney Phil? I'm just saying that.

Laylla: My new saint, thank you, Pennsylvania, my home.

Chelle: So, in this movie, Groundhog Day, a person who maybe not be a stellar human being, I guess you'd say, kind of gets trapped in the same day over and over and over, which happened to be Groundhog's Day. You know, the theory behind the movie is you have lessons to learn, and sometimes if you are not listening to the universe, the universe is going to make you listen. Trust me, been there, done that. The universe is speaking to me now. But you, in theory, can kind of get trapped in that literal loop until you learn your lesson and can bust out of it, which is really what happened in the movie Groundhog Day.

Laylla: So you were looking for a tale that was similar to that?

Chelle: I was, because, you know, you hear stuff about time loops, and there's a lot of time loop stories in movies and in in in literature, and I was really looking for a real person or real people, a real story of a of a time loop situation. You know, there was a couple, like in I think it was 1943, a 20-something-year-old uh guy in the UK claimed to be in a time loop. There was another story uh that a gentleman who was dressed in Victorian clothing just like appeared in the middle of an intersection and unfortunately got hit by a taxi and died.

Laylla: Oh, wow.

Chelle: But when the police, you know, you know, when they do the thing they do when you die—

Laylla: Investigate.

Chelle: They take all the things out of your pockets and such. Every single thing he had was like a hundred years old.

Laylla: Wow, that sounds more like a time traveler than a time loop, but that's really cool. So but you didn't go in that direction?

Chelle: I didn't, because I couldn't find anything real concrete, no real in-depth stories, and I just couldn't make something of it. So, guess what I did? You know what I did. Guess what I did.

Laylla: I'm betting, if I had to put money on this, it would be a cryptid.

Chelle: I'm doing a cryptid.

Laylla: Yes, I knew it. I knew it.

Chelle: And for our folks in Ohio, because we have some folks in Ohio, this cryptid is for you. But I think the time loop thing is something to think about, Groundhog's Day or not. It is a good lesson in learn your lessons, because the longer you push them off, the harder it's going to be, because you're still going to have to learn them.

Laylla: You know, we've had this conversation before when it comes to life lessons and the goddess or the universe kind of keep putting the same things in your path over and over again because we might be a little stubborn. That is possibly something that has been said about us in the past.

Chelle: Sometimes I need semi-four flags, I'll admit it.

Laylla: That's right. Sometimes we need that lesson to be repeated. Well, I think they said it was like some crazy thing like hundreds of years that Bill Murray was trapped in that time loop before he was able to learn—Yeah, somebody figured it out like, how long would it take to learn each of the things that he did, and figured he was trapped for like 500 years.

Chelle: No, I think I saw in print it was like more close to 10,000. It was something ridiculous.

Laylla: Some ridiculous amount of time to learn it, so we kind of need the same thing sometimes if we're not learning the lessons.

Chelle: So, if you if you are aware of a lesson you need to learn, please save yourself the trouble, handle it now.

Laylla: Just handle your shit. There you go. What? That's not actually what we're here for. I've got a story about a curse, and Chelle's got a cryptid.

Chelle: No, no, no, no. More importantly, I I need to know two things from you right now.

Laylla: What's that?

Chelle: What are you drinking, and what are you smoking?

Laylla: Okay, yes, let's get to the good stuff. First of all, I have to say that I've had some gummies today before we started this whole thing. And normally—

Chelle: Cue my surprised face.

Laylla: Normally, gummies don't work on me, and this is not a tolerance thing. People's genetic differences can affect how your liver enzymes metabolize THC, and some people have more of the cytochrome enzyme that metabolizes it really well when you ingest edibles, and other people don't have it. Chelle and I just happen to be people whose bodies don't efficiently convert THC to 11-hydroxy-THC, which is the kind that your body can absorb.

Chelle: I'm I'm glad you had told me that at one point a while back, because I was eating all kinds of edibles like, "What the hell? What the hell? What a waste of time and money." And then you told me that, and I was like, "Oh, I must have the part of the liver that really says fuck you to edibles."

Laylla: However, I have found these gummies that are absolutely amazing. They're 50 milligram gummies from this company called Red Eye. Now, you know me, back in California, I would be eating the 500 milligram brownies and—

Chelle: And it wouldn't even touch you.

Laylla: Exactly. And these 50 milligrams, if I eat two of them, I am sitting back in the chair, melting into space, very happy, very chill. So, these are very, very good gummies. I like them a lot.

Chelle: Is that the gummy you had me eat the last time I was at your house?

Laylla: It is indeed.

Chelle: Yeah, 10 stars, people. 10 10 out of 5 stars.

Laylla: I had a couple of those before we started, and I bet you can't guess what cultivar I'm smoking.

Chelle: Okay. Uh, something, something, something Gelato.

Laylla: How'd you know? It's Gelato Cake. Oh my gosh, Chelle, you're psychic.

Chelle: You know I am.

Laylla: You are. And I love Gelatos. Okay, it's true. But yeah, that's what I'm smoking, some Gelato Cake. Now, this place doesn't put the THC on there, so I'm not sure what this is, but this is kind of like their their mid-range, so I would guess, going by how it smokes, I would say it's probably 27% to 29%-ish, right around there. So, decent, but not super high. But it's really tasty. How about you, Chelle? What are you smoking?

Chelle: Well, I was going to say, what's it taste like?

Laylla: Oh, it's very sweet. It has kind of a berry cherry taste to it. It definitely has that delicious—yeah, the terpenes on here are very yummy. It's got those Gelato sweet tastes that you know I love.

Chelle: Okay. Now, I've got something new here.

Laylla: Ooh.

Chelle: Knowing me the way you know me, what is the most important factor right off the bat?

Laylla: THC that hits you upside the head.

Chelle: Correct. So, this is called—because, you know, this all comes from legal stores in Massachusetts—British Bake Off.

Laylla: That's fun. That's a fun name.

Chelle: I thought that was a TV show.

Laylla: It is.

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: You love all things British.

Chelle: And it says hybrid. So, I'm not so sure I buy into the whole indica, sativa, whatever, but it says it's a hybrid.

Laylla: No, we've talked about it before, and it it more terpene content that determines that, yeah.

Chelle: Okay. I know I've asked you this before on Stoned Witches Hour, but that's been a minute. What is—there's a THCA and a 09 THC.

Laylla: THCA is the unactivated form of THC. So, you can add those two together, and that'll give you the THC content. That just means you have to decarboxylate it, like heat it up, either with your lighter when you hit it—

Chelle: How the hell do you think I'm smoking it if I don't light it up?

Laylla: Well, sometimes you can decarboxylate it by putting it in an oven at a very low temperature for a little while to activate that THC, because the heat just activates it and turns it into a form of THC that your body can then absorb. So, if you decarb it using your lighter when you smoke it, your body can absorb it through the smoke. If you decarb it in your oven, then you can bake with it, and you can absorb that THC when you eat it.

Chelle: Well, we all know I'm not a cooker.

Laylla: That's right. You're not baking shit.

Chelle: So what you're telling me is I need to add these two together?

Laylla: Yes, add those two numbers together.

Chelle: Oh my god, cuz the first number's 32.45 and the the second number is .53, so we're talking like 33 and a half percent?

Laylla: Now, some of that THC will burn off when you decarb it, but the final number is still going to be right up in your favorite stratosphere.

Chelle: And it has—okay, this confuses me, Laylla, and you need to tell the people, cuz I can't be the only one. Under the THCA, it says 32.45% top three terpenes, and then it says D9 THC .53% limonene.

Laylla: Delta-9 is THC, basically. Delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol is the psychoactive oil that's found in cannabis, and it's the main psychoactive component in cannabis. And Delta-8 is the less potent version of Delta-9, and a lot of times it's hemp-derived. People get it from the hemp plant that doesn't really have THCA or Delta-9 in it.

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: And the limonene, that means the top terpene is limonene.

Chelle: But then the next terpene is called bellacarphyline—

Laylla: Beta, beta-caryophyllene.

Chelle: And then the third one is beta-mycrene.

Laylla: Myrcene. Like, what the hell are these things? I just want weed, man. I just want weed. Limonene is the one that makes it taste like lemons, just like it sounds like.

Chelle: That's what I like.

Laylla: Yeah. Now, that's more of a sativa, that's more of a sativa terpene. So, that being the top end, you're exactly right. It being a hybrid and limonene being up there and that THC being so high, I'd say it's more of a sativa end.

Chelle: Well, let me tell you, it's freaking awesome.

Laylla: The myrcene, that's one of my favorites, very delicious, very good. It has very relaxing properties, and people use it a lot to help with sleep, stress, anxiety. It has a sweet and fruity taste that some people say is like ripe mangoes. It's a little musky, little earthy, musky sweet, little spicy.

Chelle: The myrcene was last.

Laylla: That's okay. You like the limonene, so having that first is going to be really good. We talked before about the different terpenes that will help your back.

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: And beta-caryophyllene is one of the terpenes that will work for pain relief. It's sometimes called like the pepper terpene because it has that warm, kind of spicy, woodsy kind of smell and taste. They say that the four best terpenes to help with pain are limonene, beta-caryophyllene, myrcene, and pinene, three of which you have in this cultivar. The only one that you don't have is pinene, which unfortunately is one of the terpenes that we've found that really helps you and your back pain, and that's the only one this particular strain does not have.

Chelle: Better luck next time.

Laylla: But it is going to be delicious and very stony.

Chelle: You know, it's almost like during the day it makes you energized, but at night when you know it's kind of relaxy time, it makes you relaxy.

Laylla: It's a mindset. Just like in spellwork, intention is very important.

Chelle: I'm a weed manipulator.

Laylla: There you go. That's what you call it. But I am nice and high. I'm feeling pretty mellow and good with my Gelato Cake.

Chelle: What are you drinking?

Laylla: Right now, I'm just drinking some regular old black tea. I got some—it's called Tieguanyin, and it's a a black tea. Yeah, I got it at Wegmans. They have it, just some different loose types of tea there. So, just a little black tea, lemon, and honey, very delicious on this cold, crappy night. But what are you drinking?

Chelle: All right, people, seriously, Tetley British Blend. Got it at the store, not going to lie.

Laylla: We both went basic tea bitch tonight.

Chelle: Yeah, yeah. That's all right. I'm all right with that. So, I've got a really great story that involves a curse, a tarot reader, and a gorgeous apartment in San Francisco.

Chelle: Did you seriously—are we turning this into a West Coast-East Coast thing again?

Laylla: Holy shit, I guess we did, didn't we?

Chelle: All right, lay it on me. Tell me about your ghostly tarot stuff.

Laylla: I guess we literally did go back to the Stoned Witches Hour, my West Coast—

Chelle: We did, without even planning.

Laylla: All right, so we'll start with my West Coast story, and then we'll go to your East Coast cryptid.

Chelle: Okay, okay.

Laylla: This one's really cool, Chelle, and I had a lot of fun looking this up because it basically involves so many things. So, I've got in this story a party girl influencer—well, this was the 1960s, so she wasn't really an influencer, but if the '60s could have had an influencer, Patricia Montandon, the subject of our little ghost story here, would have been it. This whole story takes place around 1969, which was just two years after the famous Summer of Love in San Francisco.

Chelle: Interesting.

Laylla: If you think of San Francisco, Chelle, I'm sure there's a few different iconic things that you think of, right?

Chelle: The bridge and the steep roads.

Laylla: Yes, thank you. Oh, I'm so glad you said steep roads, because this apartment is on probably one of the steepest roads in the world, and it's very famous for its extremely sharp switchback turns, eight of them, I guess. And it's Lombard Street in San Francisco. And that's the one, if you ever see like the cars going really, really slowly back and forth.

Chelle: Uh-huh. Uh-huh.

Laylla: That's the street where this mansion was, at the very bottom of Lombard Street.

Chelle: Oh.

Laylla: Now, Lombard Street was built to connect the Russian Hill, I guess, with the downtown area. And where it was built, there used to be cemeteries, and supposedly, that's also where they used to do the hangings. So, it has kind of a history.

Chelle: The land is tainted, so to say.

Laylla: Right. Yeah, and as we know from our previous stories in the Stoned Witches Hour, this always causes problems.

Chelle: You know, it really does.

Laylla: Does. So, Patricia Montandon, called Pat, was born in 1928. She was one of eight children, and they were poor in the Great Depression in Oklahoma. And when she was 17, she met an older man, about 10 years older than her, very wealthy dude, and as soon as she turned 18, they got married on a radio show called Brides and Grooms.

Chelle: Weird.

Laylla: Is that like the Bachelor of the '60s?

Laylla: I guess so. I did not realize that they had, "Let's get married," shows back on the radio. But yeah. So, anyway, so she gets married, and he quickly decides he wants the traditional stay-at-home, be-a-good-little-wife wife, and that was the last thing that Pat wanted to do. He was also very abusive by all accounts. So, she left his ass, got $200 a month alimony for one year in the divorce, and had $400 in her pocket and set off for San Francisco in 1960. She got a job working in the financial district, and she said she was really lonely, so she started throwing parties to meet people. Her parties very quickly got her noticed by everyone in old money, super conservative, upper-crust San Francisco. And her parties started getting written up in the social pages. They would talk about who would go there, the gossip columnists would talk about her. They would run her photos. She was very beautiful. Because she threw such cool parties, famous people started going. She had a gossip column of her own. She was an activist who fought for women's rights, minorities' rights. Oh, and she also had a TV show. They put her on a channel called KGO, and she had like a a late-night TV show called Pat's Prized Movies, and she was so popular that in 1968, she published a book called How to Be a Party Girl.

Chelle: So she basically became a celebrity.

Laylla: She really did, and she did it through force of personality and all these parties. So her TV show started taking off because it just started out basically with her kind of doing a TV podcast where she would just talk about movies. Picture one of those old late-night TV shows, like on the cable station. You know, the weird stuff they'd play before the end of the broadcast day. Her show started out kind of like that, but it gained a really big following, so she started doing more and more on the show. Things like baking or showing recipes and talking about current gossip, as well as the movies, and it got so popular she was getting a ton of fan mail, like 60, 70 letters a day. So she moved into this beautiful apartment at the bottom of Lombard Street, 1000 Lombard Street, and it was an old mansion that had been made into three apartments. She also started looking for an assistant. She put an ad in the paper looking for literally a girl Friday, and she found a woman named Mary Lou, and they quickly became best friends. Mary Lou moved in and helped her with all of her letters, helped her with her fan mail, and they would regularly throw amazing parties. At these parties, people like Andy Warhol—

Chelle: Oh, wow.

Laylla: Danielle Steel—

Chelle: Oh, wow.

Laylla: Frank Sinatra—she dated Frank Sinatra, he would go. Eldridge Cleaver, I have no idea who that is. And Joan Baez, the singer-songwriter and activist, would go. Like, all these famous people would go to her parties, and she would regularly throw themed parties. Do you see where this is going?

Chelle: I was going to say, who'd she piss off that killed her?

Laylla: Well, she—they didn't kill her. She's actually still alive. She's 96. She turned 96 December of 2024, and she's still alive, yeah. She actually wrote a book. She's written several books. Okay, side—just side quest real quick. One of her more recent books was written in 2014, and it was like a memoir, and it was called Peeing on Hot Coals, which actually turns out to be more sad than funny. But anyway, no comment about pissing on hot coals?

Chelle: I'm just confused on how, if she's alive, where does the ghosty part come?

Laylla: Oh, she's not the ghost. She's the one that was cursed.

Chelle: Oh, do tell. Keep going.

Laylla: So she throws these themed parties, right? And she decides, because astrology is huge in the '60s, everybody is into astrology and—

Chelle: Tarot was starting to pick up a little bit.

Laylla: Exactly. So even though these are like the big upper-crust people, the hoi polloi, the super-rich people, her parties were very earthy and hippie. Like, she basically gave them a—

Chelle: Chance to let their hair down.

Laylla: Exactly. I guess Ted Kennedy even went to one of her parties wearing love beads. It's rumored that she had visited the Satanist Anton LaVey at his Black House on California Street with her friend to get a sex potion. I don't know who the sex potion was for, but it's said that that's where she got the idea to have this astrology, occult-themed party. She invited an astrologer, she invited someone who used a crystal ball, palm readers. She had her whole house decorated with zodiac signs and candles and draped fabric and, you know, just very bohemian, and she had hired a tarot reader. Now, the tarot reader showed up late, and when he showed up, he came with a bunch of uninvited people. He had a whole entourage, and he was wearing green velvet from head to toe and some sort of feathered cape.

Chelle: I like it.

Laylla: Right? And I guess he kind of swirled in with an attitude, and Pat wrote a book called Intruders about this, and in the book, she described him as having a fierce red beard and that he was a fussy, imperious little bastard.

Chelle: Sounds like somebody I know.

Laylla: Honestly, if a dude with a red beard wearing feathers and green velvet and an imperious little bastard shows up to read my cards, how freaking fun would that be?

Chelle: I'd be excited.

Laylla: Well, apparently, he had a bad attitude and immediately asked Pat to bring him a drink. And so she went off into the party to fetch this tarot reader's drink, and she says she got distracted. She was recently divorced from husband number two, and there were a lot of handsome, very famous people there. So she was flirting and forgot all about the tarot card reader and his drink request.

Chelle: And he got bitchy.

Laylla: She forgot him for about half an hour. When she went back to see how he was doing, he's like, "Where's my drink?" She's like, "Oh, shit, I forgot." And she says he literally cursed her out and then cursed her. She says that he lost his temper in front of everybody, and she said he was literally quivering with rage. He said he'd never been treated so rudely, called her insufferable and an ungracious hostess, said that he was leaving, and that he was going to make sure that she never had any happy moments in that house again.

Chelle: Oh, shit.

Laylla: Yeah. She said he was so mad that his face was red, that he was spitting with rage.

Chelle: Over a drink?

Laylla: Over a drink. And he said, quote, "I lay a curse upon you and this house. I do not forget, and I do not forgive. Remember that."

Chelle: Ouch.

Laylla: She says he swirled out, his entire entourage stormed out with him. Shortly after he left, an awning that was on the patio caught fire and fell down mysteriously.

Chelle: Or did it?

Laylla: She didn't think much about it because she says that she's not superstitious. She doesn't really believe in astrology. She just thought all that was kind of cool.

Chelle: Fun.

Laylla: So he cursed her, he cursed the house, and he did say he wasn't going to forget, and he didn't, because just a few days after the party, he called the press to bitch about her and told everybody what a terrible hostess she was and also said to both a newspaper and a radio show that he had cursed 1000 Lombard Street.

Chelle: Oh.

Laylla: Yeah. People that she worked with at the Examiner, where she had her gossip column, said that they were getting calls constantly talking shit about her. Her friends said that they were getting calls where people were talking crap about her. A few weeks after that, her house was broken into, and she started to feel really uneasy. She started hearing noises in the middle of the night, and people that would come into the apartment would feel dread, like they'd come in and immediately start to feel negative energy. She says that it became almost impossible to keep the house warm. She and Mary Lou would turn the temperature up to 90 degrees but would still have to wear coats in the house because it was so cold.

Chelle: Do you really think one person has enough, quote-unquote, "power" to do that, all that, really?

Laylla: See, that's what we'll talk about later, and I think that's why it's important to note that he didn't just curse her. He called a newspaper to reinforce the curse, then he called a radio show and reinforced the curse. This wasn't just a one-off. He kept reinforcing this, and we'll talk about that later when we talk about the witchcraft and the cursing part.

Chelle: Okay.

Laylla: There are people who think that the location where the house was built already had issues, ghostly and negative energy issues, before his curse, and that he just woke up some sort of bad energy that was already there, and it was a combination of that and his curse that caused all the problems.

Chelle: Okay.

Laylla: Because, yeah, you're right, it would require a lot of energy. The weird things really started happening after this. She says that she would lock her doors and windows, and she'd come home, and all the doors inside the apartment would be unlocked, but the outside doors would remain locked, and no one had been there. She says that sometimes the doors and windows would unlock and open themselves when just she and Mary Lou were home.

Chelle: That would freak me out.

Laylla: And a strange smell started to permeate the entire apartment, except for the master bedroom, and they could never find the source of it.

Chelle: Why not the master bedroom?

Laylla: She doesn't know. So she had a dog, a Lhasa Apso, that she named Dog, and Dog started to act really strange. Right around 2:00 or 3:00 a.m. every night, he would bark at the same place in her room, and sometimes he'd go out on the patio, and he'd bark at something that no one could see there, but if they went out there, they could feel a cold spot where he was barking.

Chelle: Which we know animals can sense things like that, so more likely than not, there was something there.

Laylla: Exactly. So this previously super-placid, very sweet dog started to get really extreme anxiety, and she says he was gnawing his own fur off, and she feels like the dog could really sense that negative energy. Like I said, when people would walk in the house, they could feel this negative energy.

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: She did eventually have to give the dog away to a friend because he was just so upset, and it was so not like him, and within days of being at the new place—

Chelle: He was fine, let me guess.

Laylla: He was absolutely fine. She said that after the dog left, she started being woken up at 2:00 a.m. hearing a song called "Mockingbird Hill" on repeat, and they couldn't find where it was coming from, and the neighbors above her and below her didn't hear it and denied playing it.

Chelle: Any particular reason for that particular song?

Laylla: Yes, there was a reason, and I will tell you later in the story. Both she and Mary Lou reported hearing that song at 2:00 a.m.

Chelle: Move. Move, people. Pat, get the shit and move.

Laylla: Her car outside kept repeatedly getting destroyed. Even her boyfriend's car was getting destroyed. Then it got stolen. All these problems kept happening. One of her boyfriends eventually left her because his car had been broken into, then it was pushed down the hill and damaged like three or four cars before it crashed at the end, and then it was stolen, and then he decided he'd had enough and he was out.

Chelle: Can you blame the guy?

Laylla: No, no, I can't. She added extra telephones, she hired an actual security guard to come keep an eye on the apartment.

Chelle: Move.

Laylla: She loved this apartment, and I'll put a link to the Zillow listing in the show notes. It's fucking gorgeous. The views, stunning. Holy crap. But like, the bathroom's very old, though, so some of it's, you know, it's like a $5 million apartment at this point. But she started to have trouble with men. At one point, one of the men that she was dating like violently attacked her, trapped her in his car and wouldn't let her out and started sexually assaulting her and told her he was going to take her to Lake Tahoe with him.

Chelle: Oh, jeez.

Laylla: She tricked him by saying, "Hey, take me back to my apartment so I can get some warm clothes for Tahoe, and then we'll go," and he, thankfully, said okay. So she tried to run inside. He caught her on the steps and started strangling her before she was able to get in the apartment, call the police, and he was arrested.

Chelle: Yikes.

Laylla: With all of the turmoil in her personal life and the strange happenings, all the strange crap that was going on at home, her public persona, her job started to take a hit. She was no longer the golden party girl of San Francisco, and rumors were flying. Her career took a hit. People started gossiping about her. She got invited on a rival TV show, and when they aired the show, they called it "From Party Girl to Call Girl."

Chelle: Ooh.

Laylla: Because what they were doing was interviewing Pat, the party girl, and then going to air at the same episode an interview with a literal call girl, only they axed the call girl part of the interview at the last minute but kept the title.

Chelle: Ouch.

Laylla: Yeah. So people were sending her hate mail, they were sending her bloody menstrual pads in the mail, which could have been the tarot reader with the curse. She had an overdose, she was getting sick. At one point, she called the police because there was a red stain that started dripping that had appeared in the middle of her living room ceiling.

Chelle: What—what was the source?

Laylla: When the police got there, they went into the apartment above hers to investigate, and they found what Pat said in her book looked like some type of occult activity, and in the like center of the apartment, they found the remains of a bonfire, like they had broken up furniture and created a fire right there in the middle of the apartment. According to Pat, it looked like some sort of occult ceremony had happened there. The fire was right above where the red liquid was dripping from the ceiling in Pat's apartment.

Chelle: Yikes.

Laylla: She married her boyfriend Al Wilsey at the time, and he moved into the apartment. He also noticed the strange feelings. Mary Lou, who lived there, Pat, and Al all started feeling dizziness, headaches, disorientation, and although they got checked out, no one could find a cause. In three years of this curse, three women, all close to Pat and all who had lived at 1000 Lombard Street, would be dead. Two of them by suicide, and the third under mysterious circumstances. Some of the sources I found said that they did it in the house, other sources said it was not, but I'm not really sure, but they did both commit suicide. Her cousin Carolyn, who had lived in the house with her for a short period of time, and also an assistant that she had had for a while named Vera Scott, who had also lived in the house.

Chelle: Oh.

Laylla: After it had been cursed. Both of these women had left the house because of the weird happenings, and they didn't feel safe there. They said it felt like the house was evil. In an eerie twist, Pat's cousin Vera had told friends that even after moving out of 1000 Lombard Street, she kept hearing the song "Mockingbird Hill," like it wouldn't leave her alone.

Chelle: So it didn't try to like kill her, so to say, just make her suffer.

Laylla: Well, she did get sick. Multiple times she had double pneumonia, she almost overdosed on pills, so maybe it did try.

Chelle: Oh, jeez.

Laylla: But the worst thing that happened in the house was Pat and Al decided to move out because it was just too much living in the house, and they moved into a house together somewhere in Hollywood, I believe. But she had just signed a one-year lease on the apartment, so she didn't give it up. And her assistant turned best friend, Mary Lou, her son had just gotten married, and she decided, "You know, hey, why don't you let me stay in your apartment, and that'll give my son and his new bride some space," because they lived with her. Pat said, "Sure, no problem. Go stay in the apartment." So Mary Lou did. And then about a week later, on June 22nd, 1969, Pat got a call.

Chelle: Uh-oh.

Laylla: About 4:00 a.m., she gets a phone call from the police. A fire had broken out in her apartment, and they needed to know who had been staying there.

Chelle: Oh, jeez. Oh, jeez.

Laylla: Pat called Mary Lou and got no answer, so she knew exactly what had happened. Yep. But it was very weird. The police determined that the fire had broken out in the master bedroom where Mary Lou was. The master bedroom was locked from the inside, and all the windows were locked from the inside. Mary Lou was found face down on the bed. Only her lower body had burns on it.

Chelle: That's weird.

Laylla: They first said that the cause of the fire was a cigarette, but Mary Lou didn't smoke. She didn't smoke anything. There was no one else in the apartment, and like I said, the bedroom was locked from the inside. So once they realized, well, it couldn't have been a cigarette, they started looking a little more. The fire started in the closet, and it burned outward in a V-shape towards the bed. There was a TV that was plugged into an outlet in the closet, so they think maybe it was a short in the electrical that burned that way.

Chelle: Or was it?

Laylla: When they examined Mary Lou's body, they could not find a cause of death. She had no smoke in her lungs. She had normal oxygen saturation.

Chelle: What?

Laylla: Right?

Chelle: I'm confused.

Laylla: Her organs were all healthy. The best that the coroner, Dr. Henry Turkel, could determine was maybe that she died of fright. He said, quote, "I should explain to you that we have examined Mary Louise Ward as carefully as we know how and at great length, and we cannot establish any reason for her death. We don't know why she died."

Chelle: I don't like that.

Laylla: So they have no clue why she died. Now, George Lucas—

Chelle: Like George Lucas, like the film guy George Lucas?

Laylla: No, different George Lucas. Funny, though. This is the San Francisco Fire Department Chief Inspector, who also worked on the case. He said that the origin of the fire was very weird and that it bugged him for years that they couldn't figure out how Mary Lou had died. He went back on his own to try to solve it because it was so perplexing, and he said that in his 22 years as a member of the fire department, this was the one that stuck out to him because it was so strange. And to this day, no one has been able to determine how Mary Lou died. The best that they got is from the coroner, and he said, quote, "The most unbelievable coincidence that this would be an electrical fire occurring by chance after someone is dead for no apparent reason." So this was the third death caused by the apartment, and then Pat was really motivated to dig into the history of the house. She learned that there had been an unusually high number of the tenants of 1000 Lombard Street that had severe relationship problems, divorces, abusive relationships, and also alcohol issues, like a high number. There was at least one suicide in the house, and neighbors told Pat that the woman who had committed suicide had been listening to the song "Mockingbird Hill" on repeat for days before she died. So after trying to take care of things herself and not being able to do anything about the curse herself, she sent in a couple of psychics in 1973. She was over it. So these psychics did tests and photographs and all sorts of basically ghost hunting and paranormal investigation that you would find now. They said that there definitely was a curse and that there was also an older, evil feeling or energy in the home. They got some really strange pictures that kept changing over time. They saw shapes and images. And one of the investigators was Frank R. Nocerino, and he wrote in his summary, quote, "You are and will be protected from anything in the house by an exorcism that my group and I have done from a distance and from symbols left behind in the house itself. I can only again suggest that you do not go there if at all possible. In particular, never go alone." After that, she never had any more problems. And eventually, it seems like the hold that the that the curse had did break because Pat went on to write more books. She became a climate activist. Uh she was an activist for gun control, women's rights. She founded a lot of charities. She was an ambassador for peace.

Chelle: Well, you said she's still alive, right?

Laylla: That's right. She was nominated for three Nobel Peace Prizes.

Chelle: No shit.

Laylla: And I don't know about now, but back when she was 93, I could still find mention that she was hosting luncheon parties at her house in Beverly Hills.

Chelle: Proper socialite.

Laylla: Right? She's still a freaking party girl. So, yeah, apparently that curse really seemed to work.

Chelle: She's lucky it wore off.

Laylla: Interesting.

Chelle: So, you have an East Coast cryptid story?

Laylla: I do. So, you know, I had to take it back to my roots. You know I love a good cryptid. I, ah, I just love a good cryptid. So, I was digging and I was like, what have I not done? Because I I have done a lot of cryptid stories. And I found a good one. Now, this story comes out of Ohio, Loveland, Ohio, as a matter of fact. This is the Loveland Frog.

Chelle: The The what now?

Laylla: The Loveland Frog.

Chelle: How am I supposed to be afraid of a frog?

Laylla: Because the thing is like five feet tall.

Chelle: Oh. Oh, so it's like a my-size frog. It's a Laylla-size frog.

Laylla: It's It's a Laylla-size frog.

Chelle: You should have led with that. You should have started with, it's a Laylla-size frog.

Laylla: This frog has been seen to be in like, you know, the regular frog stance. They're they're kind of down and close to the ground. But it's also been seen upright on two legs.

Chelle: What? Like standing up on its little web- webby hind legs?

Laylla: As tall as you.

Chelle: Like the Like the frog in, uh, I think it's something in the frog. I don't know. The Princess and the Frog?

Laylla: That might be it.

Chelle: Yeah, so it standing up like the frog prince in The Princess and the Frog Disney movie?

Laylla: It is. It is.

Chelle: Well, that sounds kind of cute.

Laylla: The pictures didn't look so cute.

Chelle: No?

Laylla: No. No. No. No. The deal is is that there has been sightings as far back as like 1950s is is what I can see. So, in 1955, there was a a what were they called, door-to-door salesmen people?

Chelle: Mhm.

Laylla: So, this door-to-door salesman driving along, you know, an old dark road in rural Ohio, Loveland, Ohio, he swears that he sees this four-five-foot frog up on its hind legs walking across the road.

Chelle: Really?

Laylla: Yeah. Yeah.

Chelle: Okay. How much had the salesman had to drink?

Laylla: Well, that is exactly what I would have thought, too. But a local farmer also was said to have seen this shortly afterwards. They poo-pooed him off because the farmer was kind of known around town for a little drinky-drinky. They thought, you know, he's just kind of jumping on the bandwagon kind of thing. So, it was kind of it's not that they didn't believe the salesman, but you know how like an outsider comes to a small town, makes some outlandish accusation, and all the locals are like, who are you and why are you here starting trouble? So, people kind of didn't believe him because he wasn't a local.

Chelle: Or because he said he saw a five-foot frog walking across the street, you know, one of those two things.

Laylla: Well, yeah. Yeah. So, he described it as like grayish and had a frog-like head with bulging eyes and kind of a leathery reptile-type skin, but that its lower body was more human. Now, I'm not going to lie to you, I did find a picture that kind of had a butt-naked frog.

Chelle: Did it have a butt?

Laylla: It It had a butt and no pants on.

Chelle: It's a frog with a butt?

Laylla: A frog with a butt. So, after 1955, you know, no one really heard much more about it. No one really said they saw it.

Chelle: Did he have frog feet, though?

Laylla: Then, 1972 rolls around. Now, you know, door-to-door salesman from out of town, okay, you don't want to believe him, okay. Then in 1972, on March 3rd at 1:00 a.m., the local police officer, Ray Shockey, he was just driving around doing his rounds, and he stopped because he saw something cross the road, and he thought it was a child. And again, 1:00 a.m., middle of March, probably a little chilly in Ohio. So, he was like, I better stop and look. He saw this crouch down in the regular frog position, I guess you'd call it. He sees this thing crouch down and then shoot straight up, stared the cop right in the eye, and then jumped over the guardrail, off he goes. Now, this was in an area called the Little Miami River. So, he goes back and he's like telling all of his coworkers who kind of think he's a little nuts and they're like, yeah, okay, I guess you saw this frog, sure, buddy. They go back and they find that there are scratches that they can't explain where they've come from on the guardrail.

Chelle: Oh. Okay.

Laylla: Like not like car crash scratches, but like unidentified-sourced scratches.

Chelle: Okay.

Laylla: So, two weeks later, another police officer, Mark Matthews, he also said he encountered on the road that night a four-to-five-foot basically frog-headed person. He said it it stood up from a crouched position, then the cop fired its gun, missed it, but he thinks Here's the thing. One account said he missed it and one said he seemingly injured the animal, but then it still got up, jumped over the guardrail, off it went. Later on, this guy Matthews, here's where it got a little weird. This guy Matthews later on claimed that he lied about his story and that he had actually seen a big lizard that he thought might have been an escaped pet iguana that had lost its tail. First of all, I didn't know iguanas lose their tail.

Chelle: They can, and they can get pretty big.

Laylla: Are you telling me there's a damn five-foot iguana somewhere? Because if you are, I am scared.

Chelle: I mean, with the tail, an iguana can get that big, but I don't think, especially a domestic iguana in like Ohio, I don't think is going to get five feet long.

Laylla: But he told people that he made the story up because he wanted to make his coworkers seem less crazy.

Chelle: Okay. So, the one guy did see it and the second guy made it up.

Laylla: The second guy made it up to basically make his coworker seem Right, right, right, right.

Chelle: To back him up.

Laylla: Not seem like he had been, uh, drinking way too much alcohol on the job. Right. Okay. I can see someone doing that for a friend. If I was worried that you would lose your job because you said you saw a cryptid, I I'd back you up. I probably wouldn't lie about something you love as much as cryptids, but I would absolutely back you up.

Laylla: Now, he claims that even a couple of weeks after that, so he lies about it, okay. I get it. You're trying to save your buddy. I got you.

Chelle: Got it. Yeah, I get it. I get it.

Laylla: But then a couple of weeks later, he then turns around and says that this time he actually saw it.

Chelle: Oh, no. No, no, no. Sorry, boy who cried cryptid here. No.

Laylla: Right. So, then he he claims to have a photograph of it, which the photograph is, you know, '70s garbage at best.

Chelle: Right, right. Really bad attempt at '70s Photoshop.

Laylla: Yeah, right. But there was something on the books as recently So, there's no more stories after this. So, the one cop swears on his life that he saw it. The other guy is just a fibber.

Chelle: Just lying. Wants a lot of attention.

Laylla: So, people are like, okay, these people claimed to see it in '55. We got one cop in '72 that says he did, one that lied about it. Uh, no one else has really seen this thing. This is where this story made me think of you hardcore. Fast forward to the year 2016.

Chelle: Okay.

Laylla: So, at this point, you're talking what, like 40 years since there's been a sighting. Two folks are out walking around in the woods playing Pokémon GO. That is so-

Chelle: I love Pokémon GO, and I love walking in the woods.

Laylla: Such a you thing. It is. It is. This screams Chelle.

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: They supposedly see, and again, photograph, what they think is a humanoid frog-like creature.

Chelle: A real-life Pokémon in the woods?

Laylla: A real-life Pokémon in the woods, yes. The problem is is that these were teenaged-type kids and, you know how kids are, playing pranks and this and that. No one believed them.

Chelle: Probably out there drinking in the woods.

Laylla: Probably out there drinking in the woods. I'm starting to see a pattern here, Chelle.

Chelle: Yeah, yeah.

Laylla: So, basically, what has happened is there's been what, like five, six, seven, eight sightings? Nothing really substantial. But there is some sort of skin that was found by I can't remember the university and I can't find it at the moment, but there was a university that was doing some sort of research out in a similar area to this, out in the area where these things all seem to have happened because it was all in a refined area. Um, and they found a weird like almost like a shedding of skin that was too big to be any snake on record, and they have basically traced it back to a frog-like creature. And this skin fits that four-to-five-foot description.

Chelle: And it's all in like one small area?

Laylla: Yeah, yeah. It's in this one little area in in Loveland, Ohio. Like, it's not like there's sightings in like New York or or Illinois or wherever. It's just in this refined area.

Chelle: Is there like some sort of marsh or pond or something there that a frog would like to live in?

Laylla: It seems to be. Some of the pictures actually show, I would call it a lake. In New York terms, I'd call it a lake.

Chelle: Yeah, yeah.

Laylla: You know what I'm saying? Bigger than a pond, but not a huge body of water.

Chelle: You know what I'm saying?

Laylla: Yeah.

Chelle: So, maybe hiding out in this little foresty lake area is some sort of creature that's been hiding. I get Bigfoot vibes. I get Bigfoot vibes, but like-

Laylla: Like big frog Bigfoot vibes.

Chelle: Big frog Bigfoot vibes, you know, like I believe, I truly to my core believe that there are creatures out there that don't want to be found by humans and have mastered that. I am I am a squatcher.

Laylla: Well, as a cryptid lover, of course that's your position.

Chelle: And everybody gets caught with their pants down once in a while.

Laylla: Especially frogman, apparently.

Chelle: Especially frogman. The picture was so funny, Laylla. The butt was so funny. Frog butts. I do think that there are unexplainable things out there that have mastered the art of hiding, just like Bigfoot. Because I also, you know, I I feel like I've seen Bigfoot. Bigfoot has been in my hometown before. There's newspaper articles to prove it.

Laylla: Your whole town saw it, right?

Chelle: Yes. It was in the local newspaper, and-

Laylla: That's right.

Chelle: And I feel that you get enough sightings of things over time, especially when it goes from generation to generation to generation, can all these people really be lying? Seriously?

Laylla: I don't know. I don't know. I don't think so.

Chelle: 1955 and 2016, like, these aren't in the same friend circle. You know what I'm saying?

Laylla: I love these stories, too, but, you know, mass hysteria is a thing. Lying so your friend doesn't seem drunk or crazy is a thing.

Chelle: But these kids, the kids that seen it in 2016, they claim something completely different in addition to the original stories and sightings, that it had like this wand-like thing that like basically it described as like spitting fire.

Laylla: Okay, hold on. It had a wand and it spit fire?

Chelle: I'm just thinking of magical frog.

Laylla: Now it's a magical frog?

Chelle: That's what I'm thinking.

Laylla: We need to go to Ohio.

Chelle: I know, right?

Laylla: There's no schooly, dang. Let's go to Ohio. I want to go.

Chelle: Our Ohio listeners, please tell me what you know about the Loveland Frog because I need to know if this thing has a fiery wand because I want one.

Laylla: I want to go camping on this lake and see if we can find the frog. I mean, if it spits fire, does that mean it's technically a dragon?

Chelle: Oh, yes.

Laylla: No, they specifically said a wand.

Chelle: So, the wand spits fire or does the frog spit fire?

Laylla: The wand spits fire and the frog has the wand.

Chelle: Oh, so somewhere between 1972 and now, it picked up a-

Laylla: He gained a wand.

Chelle: He got a fire-spitting wand.

Laylla: He's been on quests, man, probably. Frog has seen shit.

Chelle: Him and Bigfoot shop at the same damn store.

Laylla: Bigfoot's got magical wands, too?

Chelle: But I understand making things up and sometimes stretching the truth, but can can you have so many consistencies between decades long, you know what I mean? You know what I mean?

Laylla: That's the question. That's the question, right? I want to go camp there. That's all I got to say.

Chelle: This is one cryptid that won't kill you. It won't steal your soul. It's not going to make you bleed to the end of time.

Laylla: Well, I don't know. It's got a fire-spitting wand. It might be pretty dangerous. Unless it's using that wand to toast marshmallows or something, that's that's probably not a good thing.

Chelle: I mean, what is he doing with it? Like, is he casting magic spells?

Laylla: Where did he get it? Was he hiding it? He didn't have pants on, so he couldn't have been hiding it.

Chelle: He He had no pockets.

Laylla: Did he leave it at home or did he get it somewhere? I like to think he went and got it.

Chelle: And if he's living in the water, how is he living in the water with a wand that shoots fire?

Laylla: Right. Maybe he lives on the shore. We're inventing a whole backstory for this frog.

Chelle: I am. I am I am totally inventing a story for this frog.

Laylla: I like to think he's gone on a quest and earned that wand.

Chelle: He has. So, the thing is, maybe we should go camping in Ohio because he hasn't been seen since 2016 and it's been about 10-15 years. It's time.

Laylla: There you go. It is time. It seems like he appears like every 15-20 years, so.

Chelle: But why just in Loveland, Ohio? Why not in Cleveland?

Laylla: Well, I guess it makes sense. He's just in that one near that one lake, you know. He's just in that one area of the woods. You know, maybe that's his habitat.

Chelle: Is there more than one?

Laylla: You know, I like to think it's just the one. It's just the one, and it's been him all along, and now he has a wand that spits fire. That's-

Chelle: What other magical tool did he obtain? What other magical tool did he obtain in the last 10 or 15 years is the next question.

Laylla: And I need to know how he has man legs but frog feet. This I need to see.

Chelle: Now, I know that the listeners aren't going to be able to see this, but I am totally Let me share my screen. I am going to let you look at this one picture because you have to see this, and I will try to remember to post this because you got to see this. And if I forget, you need to at least Google it.

Laylla: Okay.

Chelle: Can you see my screen?

Laylla: Oh my god, look at that cake. All right, a frogman's got a butt.

Chelle: Right? So, this is basically like an artist's rendition of when the cop saw him, I guess you could call it.

Laylla: Now, in this, it looks like he has a tree branch in his hand. Now, he does appear to-

Chelle: That I wonder if that's the sparkly wand that they didn't catch on to until 2016.

Laylla: Maybe this is the start of the wand. Maybe this is where the, you know, maybe he created a wand. I don't know. I'm I'm going to say this is where it came from. But, yeah, he's got he's got a nice-looking butt there.

Chelle: Whoever the crime scene artist was back in 1955, kudos to you, my friend.

Laylla: Captured the essence of frogman beauty.

Chelle: Perfectly. He doesn't hurt anybody. He's just waving his wand around, and I need to know more. If you are a listener from Ohio, tell me more about the Loveland Frog because I need to know this information.

Laylla: All right. So, now that we've told our stories and I am packing another bowl, let's talk about curses. Let's talk about- So, if a disgruntled tarot reader wanders into your party late and demands a drink and then curses you, literally, for bringing it late, what should you do? How do you know if you've been cursed? And what do you do if you have been cursed?

Chelle: Well, can I also say that just because you're having a string of bad luck doesn't mean you're cursed, either?

Laylla: That is correct. I would have to say my first bit of advice about curses is you probably haven't been cursed.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: It's almost never a curse. Uh, it's usually, like you said, bad luck, or sometimes it's what I like to call unintentional hexing.

Chelle: Except for that one time I was cursed.

Laylla: Most of the time, level one, I like to think of, is it's your coworker that you just don't get along with that's constantly shooting daggers at you and thinking shitty things about you every time he looks at you. It's the neighbor down the hall that hates you because you got the apartment over his best friend and he's constantly talking shit about you, and whenever you say hello, he's sending death threats with his eyes your way.

Chelle: Can I just say that if level two, Massachusetts drivers.

Laylla: There you go. Yeah, you're flying down the road and you're cursing out-

Chelle: I hope that cop gets you.

Laylla: Yeah, I hope you step on a Lego. I hope you have an itch on your behind that you can never reach or whatever.

Chelle: That's where my itchy asshole spell comes in, level two.

Laylla: Level two, where you mean to send bad energy at that person. And those things can build up. You know, that type of energy can build up on somebody. And so regular cleansings can help you get rid of that, right? Like taking a cleansing bath, or using a smoke cleanse, or a music cleanse. You know, you should incorporate that as a regular part of your your witchy hygiene anyway.

Chelle: And there's nothing wrong with some salt and mirrors, either.

Laylla: Yeah. And the evil eye, I mean, people give you the evil eye without meaning to or by meaning to all the time. And there is a talisman, also called the evil eye, that you can carry with you. You can carry different stones, hematite, Herkimer diamonds are good for that, you know, to help repel negativity on a day-to-day basis from those level one and level two unintentional little shitty things, right? But real cursing requires energy. That's why every time you think shitty things about that driver that cut you off, he's not going to go home and have horrible shit happen to him, even though like you cursed his whole marriage and his lineage, because you probably forgot him by the time you got to work and bitched about him.

Chelle: Saying the words isn't enough.

Laylla: Yeah, just saying it really isn't enough. At most, maybe he'll step on a tack that day or something, but the energy you put behind it was minimal, so the result of it is going to be-

Chelle: Minimal.

Laylla: Yeah. A real curse requires intent. It requires power, and it requires that to be maintained, which is why you probably don't have a generational curse, either, because that's some heavy shit. But if you do get cursed, because there's witches out here that there's witches everywhere, man. There's magical practitioners everywhere. Pat Montandon did not intend to insult someone who would curse her, but curse her he did. And you asked the million-dollar question, and I'm so glad you did. You said, when I talked about this curse, that a curse had to be maintained.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: He didn't just do a level two, you know, "screw you, guy who cut me off in traffic," and then forget about it spell. He maintained it. He called, and he remembered enough-

Chelle: Kept following up with it.

Laylla: -and he put it out into the world. He told other people about it who then talked about it at the time.

Laylla: Fed into it, which can feed into it.

Chelle: Fed into the energy. Yep.

Laylla: Oh, that's another good point. If you think you've been cursed, just don't accept it. Don't feed into the energy. Just be like, "No, I don't accept that shit." And if your wards and stuff are good enough for that, you can just leave that curse right in the curser's hands. That's a great thing with curses. If you don't believe in it and your wards are good enough, most curses aren't going to affect you. So...

Chelle: I'm rubber, you're glue, bounces off me, sticks on you.

Laylla: Woman, I have that written in my notes as an effective thing. Because it is. It's surprising how effective that charm is if you...

Chelle: Seriously.

Laylla: That is funny, though.

Chelle: It's funny. It's good. That's good.

Laylla: So, he, that's what he did. He, he empowered that spell. He didn't forget. He remembered to keep putting energy into that spell, which is really what you have to do for a level three curse.

Chelle: Think of it like a fire. You either let it go out on its own or you keep feeding it.

Laylla: And he kept feeding it and he kept stoking it, which is why it kept working. If you feel like you've been cursed, you should definitely, first remember it's almost never a curse. If you still think it is, check in with yourself. Are you in a good place? How's your mental health? How's your stress level? Are you hydrated? Have you been sleeping? And if after you've checked all those things, you still feel like it might be, do some meditation, journal, do your favorite divination, try to figure out where this might be coming from, who might have cursed you and why. Why do you think you are cursed? Write it all down. Start working through it. Bullet point journal it. Make a list, like Chelle says.

Chelle: I like lists better than journal.

Laylla: Yes. Whatever you need to tell yourself. And then after that, if you still feel like you're cursed, check in with a trusted friend. "Chelle, think I'm cursed, man." What do they feel? How do they feel about it? Check in with a clergy person. Check in with someone who does readings professionally that you trust. Bounce the idea off someone else.

Chelle: What if that someone else says yes, you are?

Laylla: Then, okay, there's a couple other things you can do. I do know of a couple tests that you can do to see if you or your space are cursed.

Chelle: Ooh, do tell.

Laylla: One of them is very popular. It's a folk, folk magic. You might have learned this from your grandmother. I know Appalachian magic is very similar to the hill people magic that my not-witch grandmother... Not-a-witch grandmother used to do. But you take two matches and you light them and drop them into a bowl of water. And if they cross, your butt's been cursed. If they touch each other, somebody tried to curse you and it didn't work or you blocked it. If they don't touch at all, you're not cursed. You're good.

Chelle: You know, that's so funny because I actually remember doing that as a kid.

Laylla: See, I knew your not-witch grandmother was... It's again, it's a very common folk magic.

Chelle: As my grandma would call it, a superstition.

Laylla: There you go. This is very common in a lot of folk traditions. So, another one is to take a lemon or a lime, which are fabulous for getting rid of negative energy. Just like a lemon can cut through grease and dirt...

Chelle: It can cut through bullshit.

Laylla: Exactly. So, if you take a lemon, cut it in half, and then cover the cut sides with salt, and you can use herbs if you want to, protective herbs, but it's basically just salt and lemon. Take one half and place it in roughly the center of your home, and you take the other half and hide it somewhere near where like you feel the center of the negative energy is in the home. So, this lemon one is more to find out if your house itself has bad energy or has been cursed. So, first one in the middle of the house, out in the open. Second one hidden somewhere where you feel the negative energy is the strongest. And you let them rot or harden. Now, if the lemon just hardens up as it dries and it just kind of gets really dry and hard, there's no negative energy in your house. There's no curse. If it rots or gets moldy...

Chelle: You got some shit.

Laylla: You got some bad shit going on in your house. That's a way to check if your area has been cursed. Again, like we talked about, curses need upkeep. People have to be talking about it, just like the unnamed tarot reader.

Chelle: They have to be feeding that fire.

Laylla: He was feeding that fire for a very long time. For years, he would put this energy out in there. I guess when he said he would not forget or forgive, he meant it.

Chelle: He was serious about that shit.

Laylla: Right. But, you know, who's really going to do that? Who's ever really going to... How mad do you have to be to like do that?

Chelle: I've met some vindictive people. I don't know.

Laylla: All right. So, if you are cursed, if somebody does curse you pretty hard, Chelle, you've been there.

Chelle: I, I have.

Laylla: What are some things you can do?

Chelle: You know, I think in my opinion, probably the most important thing is, and I, I, I've mentioned this several times, is the mirrors. You know, we joke about the "I'm rubber, you're glue, bounces off me, sticks to you," but, you know, the same thing with the mirror thing. Whatever you're sending is reflecting right back to you and it ain't, it ain't hitting my sphere. So, I, I, I very seriously take the mirror shielding thing. Physical representations, you know, I, I know that people have said you can meditate and imagine yourself surrounded by mirrors. No, go get some damn mirrors and surround your space and yourself with those mirrors. Literal.

Laylla: If you've done the check-in steps, and one of them is to journal or write a list of what the curse is, who you might think have done it, if you know who did it, or you think you know who did it, you can write their name or make a representation of them, take a real mirror and angle it so that just their name is reflected in the mirror...

Chelle: And back at them.

Laylla: Yeah, and then just basically say, "Whatever you are sending, you receive back," and then just leave it that way. You could put their name in between two mirrors and then tuck it some place out of sight. If you got it wrong and that's not the person that's sending you negative energy, it's not going to...

Chelle: Then you're sending them goodwill.

Laylla: That's right. You could just not accept the energy. You could just say, "I do not accept this." You have to mean it.

Chelle: I get what you're saying with that. I do. But I also know, you know, as you recall, and, and when I had a little issue, it didn't just affect me. It affect, affected others in my household. So, it wasn't necessarily about me not believing it. You know, I can't just sit there and tell everybody, you know. So, you, you kind of have to...

Laylla: Well, there's level three and then there's level three.

Chelle: Yeah, so you, you, you sometimes, ignoring it isn't always the answer. But like I said, I am, I am hardcore on that mirror stuff.

Laylla: Yep. Call in your ancestors, pull up your shields, and let them go to bat for you. And then for bigger, badder curses...

Chelle: Call a friend.

Laylla: Call a friend. Clean your house. Whether you're cursed or your house is cursed, literally clean it. Because you ever notice like when your house is clean, everything's put away, everything's all nice and clean, how good you feel?

Chelle: I just got Practical Magic vision with the brooms and the, the sweep.

Laylla: Right? Yes, yes. But you feel so good. You feel good in your space. Your, your body feels good, mentally feel good.

Chelle: It's an energy shift.

Laylla: Yes, you have shifted the energy in the house as well. So, literally clean your space and then rearrange your furniture. That confuses negative energy. That can confuse negative powers that are trying to come in. Rearrange everything. Do something to banish the negative energy. Practical Magic moment, buy a new broom and sweep the negative energy out. Do whatever you need to. Use smoke, use sound, get the negative energy out. And then ward and protect your house. Put up your sigils, put iron around the doors. Oh, I had a great idea. You know, we like to camp and we go through tents relatively often.

Chelle: We are hardcore campers.

Laylla: That's right. Now, sometimes these tents come with those really shitty little tent stakes, you know, like they're like...

Chelle: Oh, yeah.

Laylla: ...just a little piece of steel wire, right?

Chelle: Yep.

Laylla: We always replace them with better tent stakes. So, I have a ton of those sitting around. Metal holds energy really, really well. So, if you use those tent stakes and charge them with the intent to protect your home...

Chelle: Oh, good idea.

Laylla: Right? You could etch them, you could put oil on them, roll them in herbs, have them in ritual and charge them with power to protect, and then drive them into the ground all around your property.

Chelle: That's a good one.

Laylla: Or you could put them up over windows, on windowsills, over doorways, because that metal also helps to prevent negative energy from coming in. So, if you've got them charged for protection, you can just keep them around your house. So, that's a good way to ward it. So, do a cleansing spell and then once you've done all that, it's important to remember you have to fill that void. So, invite in the energy that you want. Call in the energy that you want to have there and bless the space and bring that in.

Chelle: Like attracts like. If you are positive, you will attract positive.

Laylla: And talk to your space. If you think that you are living in a space that has negative energy or has been cursed, talk to it. Talk to the house. Ask it what it needs. Set up an altar for the house or the house spirits. You'd be surprised at how well that would work. I did it in the house we lived in in Rochester and it immediately stopped all the bullshit and things got a lot better, much more harmonious, and no more tricks were played after we set up a house altar.

Chelle: Such great ideas, but just remember, more often than not, it's probably not a curse. Have a margarita curse breaker, but maybe that's for a... Oh, okay. All right, last thing. What if you think you have accidentally cursed someone? We've had a few listeners who are concerned that their negative thoughts can be causing curses. And before we go any further, know that's not how it works. You're good. Again, let's use the car cutting you off analogy. Chelle, angry driver.

Laylla: Happens.

Chelle: Some people are worried that maybe they're cursing that guy, you know, "May your sphincter burn with the pain of a thousand suns." They're worried. What do you do if you've accidentally cursed someone and you're worried about it? Can your random thoughts curse someone?

Laylla: I don't think your random thoughts can, no. Um, I think it takes a little more time and effort than just a random thought.

Chelle: Yep.

Laylla: But I also want to say that not every witch follows the threefold law and not every, you know, some people don't necessarily worry about those consequences. But just because you think something doesn't mean there's going to be consequences. It does take some level of thought and energy more than, "You bastard, you cut me off. I hope you get a flat tire." You know, it's going to take more than that.

Chelle: Yeah, exactly. Even if you're really mad at them, I agree. It has to take more than that. I do know two different ways to call back a spell if you did curse someone and you want to bring it back.

Laylla: Okay, okay, I'll listen.

Chelle: All right, so the first one, very easy. You dig a hole in the dirt, preferably in the ground, but a plant will do, just a very small hole. Then into that hole, whisper what happened. Whisper to the dirt who you cursed, why, and why you want to take it back. I mean, say you're sorry, literally. You have to do it three times. Say it three times into the hole, just whisper it. Then put in an offering, something like a, a piece of fruit, a, a note that says you're sorry, a crystal, a coin. It should be a gift to counter the negative of the curse, right? So, you put that in the hole, cover it up, turn around, don't look back, and walk away a different route from the way you went to get to, to where you put that in. That'll break the curse.

Laylla: No, this is a little more unconventional, but honestly, I would just probably light a candle and ask deity, you know, be like, "Hey man, I, I, I fucked up. I'm sorry. Can we, can we take this back? I'm real sorry. I didn't mean to do that."

Chelle: Another really simple, fast thing is, uh, take a little bit of tea, take a sip of tea, and in your mouth, while thinking about the curse that you said, run the tiny bit of tea and your tongue over your teeth, over the inside of your mouth, and then spit it out into running water, just like your tap. Turn the water on and then spit it out, and that will get rid of the curse as well.

Laylla: And then slap yourself in the face.

Chelle: So, it's basically taking the words that you said, the things, you know, the words from you said right out of your mouth. You can also like bite a little bit of lemon and do that and spit it into running water.

Laylla: I kind of like the added slap yourself in the face.

Chelle: Yeah, and then slap yourself in the face because why did you curse somebody, you idiot?

Laylla: That's Chelle's addition to that spell.

Chelle: There you go. Crossroads are good places to leave curses, too. Just walk to a crossroads, say it at the crossroads and take it back, and then turn around, don't look back, and walk away. So, there you go. There's our cursed house story and our cryptid frog story and what to do if you've been cursed. So, there you go. We have successfully combined The Stoned Witches Hour and Back on the Broomstick to bring you...

Laylla: Stoned Witches on a Broomstick.

Chelle: And probably the longest episode ever. Can I just say, with everybody listening, I'm going to make this public. Here's to 100, my bestie. I love you and, and this has been fabulous and I'm so glad we had the idea to do this and let's just keep on keeping on because I love this.

Laylla: Me, too. 100 episodes, our two-year anniversary, it's just about Imbolc, it just can't get much better. So, thank you all so much for being with us for 100 episodes of Back on the Broomstick.

Chelle: Stoned Witches on a Broomstick, I like that.

Laylla: We really appreciate all you guys hanging out and being part of our witchy friendy, friendship, witchy... Oh, fuck. Being part of our witchy circle.

Chelle: For this episode, we're going to say happy 100 to all of us. Listeners, you, me, happy 100. Cheers.

Laylla: Happy 100. We hope you enjoyed this witchy throwback. If you liked this episode, please like, subscribe, give us some stars, some reviews. Our baby YouTube channel is almost at 1,000 subscribers, so if you haven't checked that out, hop on over there and give us a like and subscribe on YouTube. We're on BlueSky, Instagram, Facebook. Find us in all the places. So, we will see you next week. In the meantime, be high, be happy, and keep it witchy.
