Chelle: Welcome to Back on the Broomstick, a modern witches spoken word grimoire, where two witchy friends from way back are reconnecting to their pagan roots after a long period of mundanity. We're re-walking the path of the wise and trying out all the latest spells, rituals, and magical theory in today's witchcraft and pagan practices.

Laylla: So grab your wand and your incense, your cauldron and your crystals,

Chelle: and join us as we get back on the Broomstick.

Laylla: Hi and welcome to Back on the Broomstick. I'm Laylla, and on this episode we're joined by the incomparable witch Judika Illes. Judika is a witch, a tarot reader, an aromatherapist, an author, and an editor, and you may know her from her book Encyclopedia of 5,000 Spells, and her newest book Witches a Compendium.

Chelle: And just to point out, I'm Chelle here, and I just want to say that I am super excited, everybody, for this. I remember buying this big book that was so big you could take out a grown man with it.

Laylla: It's a security device.

Chelle: It's a big book. I actually still have it. The Encyclopedia of 5,000 Spells, I'd never seen anything before like that in my life, and you were an eye opener.

Laylla: Thank you.

Chelle: To have it circle back and have you here today in 2024 is just mind blowing to me. So welcome. Laylla and I welcome you.

Laylla: Thank you. Thank you. I'm very happy to be with you.

Chelle: Judika, tell us a little bit about your newest book.

Laylla: You know, it's a mini encyclopedia because I've written big encyclopedias. So long story short, it was between my third and my fourth encyclopedia. I had the opportunity to write a small book, and it was fun because usually writing is not fun for me. Writing is a lot of work, but this was fun, and I got to celebrate witches in general, and I love witches. And it's a celebration of witches. I did a podcast, and the host described it as a love song to witches, and that's really what it is.

Chelle: I like that.

Laylla: A love song to the witches of the world.

Chelle: Now you say that you liked because you got to write a smaller book, which this book you can't really take out a grown man with, I'll admit it. But this book is maybe small in stature, but it is overly large in epic information.

Laylla: I try.

Chelle: You packed a lot of good good info into this book.

Laylla: You know, I am not a child of the '80s. I'm older, and I remember when books were inexpensive. And it if only because of my age, price of books, I mean, along with other things, it bothers me. So I really do try to give people, you know,

Chelle: Best bang for their buck.

Laylla: Yeah, yeah, that's the phrase. Yeah, definitely. It's terrible, you know, you're you're spending this money and, you know, there's nothing in it. So I I try to be substantial.

Chelle: Well, you knocked it out of the park with this one.

Laylla: And I could have written I could have written a book that was twice as large. The hard part is what I left out.

Chelle: Yeah, we're not in there.

Laylla: Maybe the next edition.

Chelle: That's right.

Laylla: But you know, I have my art witches in here, my my painting witches. And I could have added some more. Unsaid that Lenore Feeney isn't in it. I mean, I could give you all the people who aren't in it cuz you know, the history of witchcraft, past, present, and you know, future. It's really it's it's vast.

Chelle: You could totally write a part two to this, absolutely.

Laylla: Yeah, absolutely. Definitely. Maybe one day, who knows?

Chelle: And what this book is is it's actually a lot. It's modern day witches, it's historical witches, it's witches in media and in movies, and it's concise, interesting information, and there's witches we expect, like Laurie Cabot's in there. But there's also witches I didn't expect, like Moses, you know? And there were witches I had never heard of before. But you give the historical context and the reasoning why they could be considered witches. I was fascinated. I knew a lot of the information, but there was so much I didn't know. So absolutely.

Laylla: Good good. Yeah. Or whether they were perceived as witches. Because depending where you are, sometimes that you know, that's more pivotable, whether you are or aren't a witch, or whether you consider yourself a witch, if other people think you're a witch, that that can really have a lot of impact on your life even now.

Chelle: We remember the '90s. You you started reading tarot cards professionally in '90 or '88.

Laylla: '88.

Chelle: So you've been a a witch you're pretty much your whole life basically, and

Laylla: Always.

Chelle: in the '90s it was scary. People were afraid to wear their regalia or their jewelry. They were afraid to say who they were. Even in the 1990s it was scary to be a witch.

Laylla: Later, into the 2000s.

Chelle: That's true. Even still. The three of us have a connection, um, Judika, that I'm not sure you're aware of, but the three of us are native upstate New Yorkers, and you know that environment in upstate New York back in the '90s like you had to be careful. You had to be careful because that was, you know, small towns, back woods, you know, a big red state. We had to be careful coming out back then.

Laylla: We're not a red state, but upstate's definitely very red.

Chelle: Parts of it are pretty red. I mean, New York is not a monolithic state, but I mean, I remember teaching, how I want to say, at a festival. I want to say it was in Virginia in sometime in the 2000s. And I taught in Christopher Penczak, and you know, the festival paid for presenters, and I remember being there and thinking it really, you know, I I do my best. I I think we Christopher and I did a ritual together, which I think it's the only time we've done that, but we weren't really necessary. All these people who attended were just happy to be able to take their pentacles out from under their clothing and walk around all weekend and be a pagan, be a witch, and not have to worry about judgmental people or worth. That was Everything else was just like icing on the cake. That was the cake.

Laylla: Back then to meet a group of pagans was like a magical event in and of itself.

Chelle: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.

Laylla: It was it was difficult. And And And like you said, Judika, even now, even in the early 2000s, I am absolutely amazed how difficult it still was to be a witch at that time. And

Chelle: Well, one of the things I wanted to do with witches, with the book witches a Compendium, was And I I do try to do this with all my books, is not to not to limit my topic to narrow geographical area. So it 's not just the United States or North America or the English speaking world because witchcraft in some form, you know, even if it's not exactly the same, exists worldwide.

Laylla: It's a worldwide, yeah, yeah, yeah.

Chelle: And you know, depending where you are now, every once in a while, you know, you still you you open the newspaper and you hear about may not be in North America, but there is somebody suspected of being a witch, perceived of as being a witch. And they they they're killed, and people who kill them very rarely get in trouble.

Laylla: Right, and it has been flung as a word against non witches, usually as a form of control.

Chelle: Yeah. It's an insult.

Laylla: Yeah, as an insult or someone who doesn't conform. They would use that as a way to punish people for being different or for not conforming to their rules.

Chelle: An unruly woman.

Laylla: There you go.

Chelle: Especially for women, women who are somehow not behaving.

Laylla: Yeah. You're just a witch. Yeah, yeah.

Chelle: It's It's very interesting because I see it, you know, it cuts across political boundaries too because I've seen it with Kamala Harris, people calling her a witch. She's not a witch. You know, and I think witch is a positive word. So you know you know I I I I know, you know. But I've also seen Condoleezza Rice, you know, on the other end of the political spectrum, Hillary Clinton. I I think I have I collect witch postcards, and I have witch postcards featuring both Condoleezza and Hillary Clinton, you know, dressed up as like the Wicked Witch. It's It's You know, they're not talking about magical practitioners. They're not talking about healers.

Laylla: Right, right. Right. They're talking about the Wizard of Oz, green skin. Yeah, yeah, yeah.

Chelle: Yes, yes, yeah, yeah.

Laylla: And you know, on the Broomstick with the with the monkeys and And you know, and it's not even it's not even like a a religious heretic or, you know, there's there's nothing witchy about it. It's just here is an uppity, disobedient woman I don't like, uncontrollable woman.

Chelle: Yep, yep. Even today, even in Salem, Massachusetts, Shell has heard people calling other people a witch in replace, you know, of calling them a bitch.

Laylla: Yeah. Oh yeah, I actually in my day job, um, a few years back was in a derogatory manner called a witch, and I literally work in downtown Salem.

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: So even there, even there today it's still a bad word.

Chelle: I I I believe I I I believe Barbara Bush referred to Geraldine Ferraro as a witch, but you could tell she It was her way of not saying bitch. Like that's, you know.

Laylla: Yeah. See, when people call me a witch, I just wear it like a badge of honor. Thank you. Thank you very much.

Chelle: Yeah, thank you. Well, we've also kind of claimed the word bitch as well, so we might as well take both of them.

Laylla: Right, yeah. Why not? Absolutely. Absolutely.

Chelle: And I love dogs. I love dogs. Dogs are better than people. You know, bitches are good. Bitches are good. That's not an insult.

Laylla: Right. I'm sure Hecate would say the same, right, Shell?

Chelle: Absolutely. Absolutely. Now I know we talked about how there's a lot of quote unquote witch history in here, but there's other stuff, um, other good information, like different types of witches,

Laylla: Yeah.

Chelle: different tools you can use, basic kind of setup stuff.

Laylla: I love the museum of witchcraft.

Chelle: Yeah, yeah. And I think that that is a good a good tool for people. There's a resurgence again. There was back in the late '80s, early '90s. There's a resurgence, and getting out some of this information in a clear, concise way. You know, even though we we had our big blue books 30 years ago, we is a is a population need more books like this Witches Compendium. Back in our day you were just a witch. There wasn't really a kitchen witch or a green witch or a water witch. You know, you were just either a witch or a not a witch. And now, you know, you kind of explain all of those different

Laylla: They were not all the same.

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: That's right.

Chelle: Everything's kind of aspect out, and and you explain that very good for folks that maybe are looking for what direction they want to go to, what pulls to them, and you kind of give them a good explanation of all of those, and I like that.

Laylla: I think that this book has sort of has two audiences. One audience is people like me who love witches, and you know, you know, you want to sell me something, put a witch on it, I'll buy it, you know?

Chelle: Add to cart.

Laylla: Right. But also I think people who might be a little who might be attractive, but are a little afraid or a little ambivalent or who think this might be something interesting, but they've heard terrible things. And witches are heroes. We are wonderful people. We are independent, uppity people, but that's a good thing. We we think for ourselves, and that's something maybe everybody should strive for.

Chelle: We need a lot more of that, I think, in the world. Absolutely.

Laylla: Yeah. Yeah.

Chelle: Wouldn't hurt.

Laylla: Yeah.

Chelle: Right before you came on we were talking about your book and about how every single witchling should have this book. It gives you a great history.

Laylla: Oh, that's really nice. Thank you. That's very nice.

Chelle: This gives them an excellent grounding in recent history, a little bit further in history, the tools that they might need. Buckland's Blue Book was wonderful, but it was very one note, and it and it doesn't really resonate with a lot of people today.

Laylla: Right. Well, it was for a type of witchcraft.

Chelle: A certain time. And And yours gives people a very well rounded introduction into a lot of different things.

Laylla: Back to New York City, you know? I mean, when you when you read a book, one of the things is who is the writer writing for? And sometimes writers are writing for a very very specific audience. And you know, I I I have an international family. I lived in Queens, the most diverse place on Earth. So I I'm used to being with people. We may not agree on everything, or we may not do things the same way. But you can respect somebody. You know, we we don't all have to be the same. So that's that's where I was coming from.

Chelle: Right. And I love that that you address many different cultures, a lot of different belief systems, and it it's all right there.

Laylla: I never I I don't want people to feel left out, and I 'm sure somebody will feel left out because that's inevitable.

Chelle: Well, like you said, you have to write a second one.

Laylla: But But this was pretty encompassing.

Chelle: I I try. I try not to have that very exclusive, you know, this is a this is a witch and you're not. You know, one of the things people ask me, Christian witches. Well, I I know people who identify as Christian witches, and even if it might seem contradictory to someone, who am I to tell them? I'm not the Pope of witchcraft. I'm not going to say, you know, oh oh no, you're wrong. You're not a witch. I mean, if you have created a path for yourself and that is how you identify yourself, I I don't know that it's for any And you're not harming anyone.

Laylla: Yeah, we don't want to go there. I have a very controversial opinion, and my opinion is that if you say you're a witch, you are a witch.

Chelle: Yeah, me too.

Laylla: I have no other requirements.

Chelle: No, right, right, exactly.

Laylla: So if you want to say you are a Christian witch or in your book, Shell was very happy that you mentioned Jewish witches because we happen to be in a coven with a couple of, uh, self identified Jewish witches and

Chelle: Yeah. Yeah. Oh, a lot of Jewish witches. That's not That's not even contradictory because you have this centuries, millennia of history of magical practice that was for centuries the negative stereotype of Jewish people. They were magicians.

Laylla: Exactly. Yeah, yeah. Yeah.

Chelle: So I mean, the issue with Christian witches, and I do understand the issue is that is that for centuries the church as an establishment persecuted witches. And I mean, I think there is, um, you if you get into the historical part, the Congolese Saint Antonio, which she's one of my favorites, you know, she was essentially she she was very much She was burned at the stake by the church. You know, you are not necessarily expecting that in Congo in the Congo. But, you know, so it's not just in select places in Europe. And, um, so I think there there is that anger and that bitterness, and when somebody You know, but but we all have our paths. And And as an individual, if you have forged a path and you have worked out something that

Laylla: Yeah.

Chelle: I like this complicated, and you've integrated those contradictions. Who is it for someone else to tell you Like you can't come into somebody's life and say, oh no, you're not what you think you are. I mean, that's, you know, a little harsh.

Laylla: And that's what I think the big attraction is, uh, to witchcraft is how it can be so individualized.

Chelle: Yeah, I think so too.

Laylla: And who are we to I don't want people telling me how to practice, so why would I tell other people how to practice?

Chelle: Right. I don't identify with a witch because I want people to tell me what to do.

Laylla: That's right. That's not why we became witches.

Chelle: If I wanted people to tell me what to do, I wouldn't be doing this.

Laylla: A lot of people love your encyclopedias particularly because there's so much there that they can then individualize for themselves.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: And that was my hope. Yeah. And it comes through. That 's what people say time and time again is that you have given them access to all this information, but done it in such a way that people are then very free to personalize it.

Chelle: It's almost like a reference point. It's almost like like that encyclopedia of spells is almost like a reference point where you know, you kind of present a certain spell per se for a certain idea, and then we're free to go and kind of manipulate that to our own individualized way or our own individualized practice.

Laylla: Yeah. I had to be talked into writing that book by the editor, and I mean, eventually he hooked me. I wanted to do everything.

Chelle: Probably because of the size.

Laylla: Yeah. No, that wasn't it wasn't Oh my god, I wasn't supposed to be that size. That that just happened.

Chelle: It was supposed to be smaller.

Laylla: I have a contract for 450 pages. I mean, no publisher If you've ever seen the first edition, book literally is a hard cover, beautiful hard cover with a dust jacket. It weighed over 5 lbs. And at some point after about a week Amazon refused to ship it for free. That's why there are all those different versions because they tried to finally get it to a weight.

Chelle: That's what I'm saying, you could take out a grown man with that book.

Laylla: Anybody bothers you, you just like not drop it on on their foot.

Chelle: That's my favorite kind of spell, you know, the mundane before the magical.

Laylla: Just throw the book. Just throw the book. You're fine.

Chelle: What are the reasons that you know, one of the ways he he hooked me into doing this book was there was there are a lot of spells that have variations. And usually when you write a book, you have to pick one. But the publisher really wanted 5,000. And so that's great. You can have three different versions of Florida water. You can have different versions of stuff. You don't have to make that, you know, because that's a choice. I'm going to show you this one version, and you may have to go looking for the others. And sometimes, you know, here are three versions, and you can you can come up with another one. You know, you can adjust it. You You can create a new one. It doesn't doesn't have to be this way.

Laylla: Yeah. And And people find a lot of freedom in that in your encyclopedias, and so I love that about them.

Chelle: Well, that to me that's what witchcraft is about. It's about independence and freedom and not having people tell you how to do every little thing. Not to like, you know, say anything negative, but we all know there are people who live like that, especially women. There are places where they are telling you what to do, how to dress, what to do with your hair, what you can eat, what you can eat, what you can think, what you can read.

Laylla: Right. Mm hm.

Chelle: I mean, there are a lot more conventional places to go if I want to live like that. That's not what witchcraft is. Witchcraft is to create your own path and to do your best to create your own life and your own parameters.

Laylla: Oh, love that. Very powerful.

Chelle: Well, I mean, if you want to go for a real basic I mean, even all these fairy tale images of, you know, the witch in the forest and her little hut, like why is she in the forest? Well, because maybe they chased her there. But also because nobody is telling her what to do there.

Laylla: Right. I aspire to be the witch in the woods all by myself. Thank you.

Chelle: Yeah. You know, I like plumbing.

Laylla: Well, yeah, I'm going to have a great house. It's just going to be all by itself. That's all.

Chelle: Yeah, yeah, yeah.

Speaker 1: My house is going to be next door. What are you talking about?

Laylla: Oh yeah, well, that's different. We're going to live together.

Chelle: Our little enclave in the woods.

Laylla: Yeah, an enclave in the woods. That's great.

Chelle: Yes. We used to have those all the time when we would go to festivals, our little enclave.

Laylla: So with witchcraft being very free, with that freedom comes a lot of questions, especially by witchlings. And And it's very scary being told, oh, just do it your way. And like, well, I don't know what my way is yet. And so there can be a lot of fear of starting there.

Chelle: Well, but that's that's why one of the beauties of witchcraft, the alchemy, is finding your way. No one knows right away.

Laylla: The trial and error is half the journey.

Chelle: Yeah, And And the fun. I mean, if you You know, assuming that a witchling is a young person, I mean, imagine if you have to commit to everything I mean, I I know, you know, sometimes you people do their circumstances, but you're young and now everything is decided and this is the rest of your life. It This is it's it's a trial and error. It's the it's the circuitous route. It's like the the trail of crumbs in Hansel and Gretel going back to Witches in the Forest. You You start to follow something and you see where it's going to go. And if it doesn't work, you're going to try something else. And eventually, you know, in astrology you're not even an adult until your first Saturn return, which is 29 years old.

Laylla: True. 29 years old.

Chelle: So it's a What are the things with witchcraft that people don't talk about enough? And I did try to express it in my book. Is, of course, there are tragic aspects to it. And of course, sometimes it's hard work. And sometimes we're spell casting because, you know, our life has turned to crap and we want to fix it. But witchcraft is fun.

Laylla: Yeah.

Chelle: And if you look back at the stereotypes that the Inquisition had about witches, one of the stereotypes is that witches were having fun. They were flying away to mountaintops under the full moon to dance and feast and have fun rather than staying home and doing their housework or praying or, you know, doing whatever they were supposed to be doing. It should be fun. There is a And And fun fun will build up your magical energy, your own personal power. It is a serious thing about witchcraft having fun.

Laylla: Being obedient.

Chelle: And I I think that that will eventually lead you to some sort of ma It's a lifelong thing. If you like if you know already if it's like done, like what else are you going to do? Keep doing the same thing for decades? Go have fun. Learn something new.

Laylla: I love that. Fun in witchcraft is very important, and thinking back, Chelle, to when, you know, we would get together when we were first building things that we had a lot of fun. I remember a lot of laughter even when things didn't go well.

Chelle: But we had a lot of We had a lot of trial and error though too.

Laylla: Well, yeah.

Chelle: But that's how you learn.

Laylla: Exactly. You have to be not afraid to fail, I think.

Chelle: And that's how you learn what you're made out of. You know, you don't know until you start.

Laylla: Right.

Chelle: That's true.

Laylla: So you said something about, you know, lifelong learning. So I'm going to kind of take a little blast from your past, and I'm going to call you out, Judika. I heard that when you were 6 years old, you stole your older sister, who I believe was 18 ish at the time, you stole her tarot cards, and that was your first deck.

Chelle: Not a teen, a mugger. I I think I mugged her.

Laylla: Oh, you mugged her. It was even worse.

Chelle: Honestly, I respect you more now cuz you mugged your sister. And you would come in the door because, you know, I you know, I was little. I was home all day. I mean, where, you know, I'd go to school and I'd come home and she'd be coming home in the evening, and she always brought good stuff home. Always, books, records, all kinds of stuff. I mean, it it happened to I I mugged her all the time. I would just And she was very nice.

Laylla: And she was very nice. 6 years old it was all very enamoring to you. Yeah.

Chelle: Enamoring. And you know, I was the only child in a family of adults. My closest at that time I have a cousin who's younger than me, but, um, my sister, I had a cousin who lived in the same building. They were all a dozen years older than me. I I I was not a childish child at that point. I was, you know, I learned how to read very early. I was surrounded by

Laylla: What what people call an old soul.

Chelle: Uh, yeah, maybe.

Laylla: That was your Was your whole family into divination or just your older sister?

Chelle: My mother My mother was fascinated, and my mother, um, was what you would call a true dreamer. You know, if you've ever lived with a true dreamer, that's not always like a comfortable thing. A true dreamer is someone who has dreams of things that are actually happening. She, you know, she dreamt that my my college roommate was pregnant when she was, and I had not planned to tell her. That was, you know, we don't need to know that. But, um, she she called me up and told me her dream, and I was just so shocked that I blurted it out, you know. Yes, that's true. I mean, she had details. So I I don't know if they were into divination as practitioners, but there was an interest.

Laylla: Okay.

Chelle: And I think a tolerance. And I get emails, especially right after I wrote 5,000 Spells, I would get a lot of emails from people telling me they demonstrated some psychic abilities as a child or, you know, they saw a dead person or a fairy or something, and how their families would panic and essentially beat it out of them. And they they would like to return. They had that gift, and then it wasn't safe to have it, but now they would like to get it back. And I never had an experience like that. The absolute worst thing anybody in my family ever did with me was roll their eyes at me. That is the worst thing. So

Laylla: Do you remember what that first tarot deck was?

Chelle: Oh, I still have it.

Laylla: The Builders of Adytum, right?

Chelle: Builders of Adytum, B.O.T.A. Yeah, I still have it, which makes sense cuz my sister was an art student.

Laylla: What would possess a 6 year old to to grab a deck of tarot cards?

Chelle: I believe this is the most magical coloring book in the world, and I love coloring books. And it was it was just magic. So, you know, for people who don't know, that's a deck where you're supposed to color it in. You have these really really detailed instructions about the colors you're supposed to use, and I have never colored it in because I, uh, it made me nervous. It was a little bit too too much telling me what to do and what if I do it wrong. So I I just use it like

Laylla: Are you a Cancer or an Aquarius or

Chelle: Yes. Yes. I am a Cancer with a Stellium in the sixth house. So yes, everything is practical. And look, I I I I worry if things aren't, you know, are we still going to do this tonight? Are we still going to do this? I mean, that's that's just my nature.

Laylla: So you stole your sister's tarot deck and you never called it in. Now Shell is a, shall we say politely, a connoisseur of tarot decks?

Chelle: I appreciate you saying that and not calling me an obsessive addict. Thank you.

Laylla: She's an obsessive addict, but we'll go with connoisseur for right now since she likes that word.

Chelle: You can be both. They're not mutually exclusive.

Speaker 2: Exactly. Exactly.

Laylla: Do you also have a passion for tarot decks?

Chelle: Oh, yeah. I have a passion for tarot. I I I have decks that I love. I, you know, but I mean, I still use the Rider-Waite Smith. That's, you know, I know other people get bored with it, but that's my old standby. The thing with the Rider-Waite Smith, and I used to work in a psychic hotline for a couple of years, the thing with the Rider-Waite Smith is if you, and people have, if you wake me up at 4:00 in the morning because you have an emergency and you really need a reading right now, I can do it. The Rider-Waite Smith is so consistent and so reliable. I remember being, you know, working that psychic hotline and that was the deck I always used because this was in the early '90s at a time when it was very popular, the 900 numbers. And you'd go from reading to reading to reading to reading and people were asking about all different things and you just had to do it. Like you couldn't say to people, oh, let me switch a deck, let me, you know. People are a pain. I remember they were paying $4 a minute and by the time they had gotten to the actual reader,

Laylla: Yeah.

Chelle: they'd already spent like four minutes listening to all kinds of announcements.

Speaker 2: And I have a question about your time with that because I had found, you know, reading your back info, I'd found out that you were a part of that, which back then I found fascinating yet cringy. And you know why all of those things. Question to you is, did you feel drained every day? Like did you just feel

Chelle: No.

Speaker 2: That wasn't draining

Chelle: Tarot for me is If I could, I mean, this may be a terrible thing to say, I'm I'm proud of my body and books. I, you know, I was a single mother for a while too. So I mean, I mean, I'm still a single mother, but I mean, my kids are grown up now, but I was a single mother of small children. If I could do nothing but read tarot cards, that's what I would do. I love reading. I find it very energizing.

Speaker 2: Really? Cuz there'd be times where Laylla and I would go and do big group readings at at colleges or for local organizations or or private parties. And like I remember one time we were at a college function and we did What did we do, Laylla? Maybe 200 readings in 4 hours?

Laylla: 200 Yeah.

Speaker 2: Like I needed to sleep for two days after that. Like it just I felt just so sucked out of me.

Chelle: Yeah, but I I don't know this that's that's all those people. That's a lot of people. I used to work in a store in Manhattan uh what do you say? 2004-ish, five, six, something like that. A year later, I worked there every Saturday. I was the card reader like and it was a tourist store. You know, it was in in a touristy area. So you would always get people coming in, oh, let's do a reading. And I would sit down at 12:00 and I wouldn't even stand up till 6:00. And when I stood up, it wasn't that I was drained, but I was dizzy. It was like I couldn't You kind of go into a zone.

Speaker 2: Is it because of the in-person thing where you're physically mingling with their energy?

Chelle: I think so and all the other people.

Speaker 2: Do you think that's what it was?

Chelle: Yeah, and all the other people because it's just a lot of people around. You're in a store. So if it's like one-on-one and a little more relaxed, it's for for me tarot when it's working, it's like it's like you're plugged in to something and it's very profound and very I like it. It's very hard for it to be an economically stable thing to do.

Speaker 2: Very true. Yeah.

Chelle: You know, I think card readers and fortune tellers are the best because, you know, not to cast aspersions, but doctors, when do they make their money? When you're sick. When do funeral directors make their money? When you're dead. When do lawyers make their money? Oh, well, you've got a problem. Fortune tellers want you to be doing well because when you're not doing well, the first thing you're going to cut out is your fortune teller.

Speaker 2: Right.

Laylla: Cuz right.

Chelle: You know, cuz that's a luxury.

Speaker 2: And here here in Salem, I see a lot of people who try to make their living off of that.

Chelle: It's hard.

Speaker 2: Yeah. Yeah.

Chelle: In Salem, there's so much competition. That's that's a hard thing.

Laylla: Salem is really hard during the Halloween season and then it's so much better the rest of the year.

Speaker 2: It is crazy town and everybody's making money, but the other 11 months, it's hard because like you say, there's so much competition.

Chelle: I have read in Salem in October. I have been in Salem in October. It is crazy town.

Speaker 2: It is.

Chelle: I mean, it's exciting. I remember tourists come from all over I mean, I don't know if

Speaker 2: Very peopley. Very peopley.

Chelle: I don't know if people appreciate It it's like Mardi Gras. People come from all over I met people from Australia.

Speaker 2: Yeah. Yeah.

Chelle: People come from all over the world to be in Salem in October.

Speaker 2: Yeah.

Chelle: But it's overwhelming.

Speaker 2: I mean, maybe everybody should do it once.

Chelle: That's always what I say. Do it once. Do it once.

Speaker 2: But people who who really want to enjoy Salem, come in like the spring or the summer.

Laylla: Spring is coming up and I cannot wait.

Chelle: Yeah. You know, people have time for you. You can shop.

Speaker 2: I say spring and summer cuz you can walk around without a jacket. You're comfortable. You know, you got the beach that it's sunny. It's beautiful here in New England in the summer.

Chelle: Yeah. Yeah, people are relaxed. There's less people.

Laylla: I'm an introvert. I'm and I I'm not a people person, but I would definitely say, especially if you're someone who does not live near a witchy area, go to Salem. Do the pilgrimage. Wear your witchy best because like you said, it is a chance for people to be amongst your people, to be amongst other witches that you might not necessarily get. My very first experience with other witches was I went to Salem for Samhain and I my jaw just was on the floor constantly because you're bumping into witches everywhere. They were crawling out of the woodwork.

Chelle: Yes. The town of witches.

Laylla: Yeah, and it was brilliant. It was absolutely brilliant.

Chelle: Oh, so I had had some I mean, gentle, like no one there was no harm, but I've had some anti-witch comments to me in Salem. I mean, I have like walked down, you know, and I I wear a cape, like you know, it's cold in October, at the end of October. So I've got the cape and I have unruly hair. And you know, people people have all my life had a tendency to look at me and think I I am witchy or I I have a Aquarius rising, you know, or somehow weird or something. I mean, even without anything else.

Laylla: Yeah. You were born this way, darling.

Chelle: But I mean, I remember being in Salem and people crossing the street. I mean, this is actually pretty funny. I I may have done a mean thing. I was standing at There is the point, you know, by Essex Street where it becomes like um

Speaker 2: A walking the walking part. We We just called the walking part of Essex.

Chelle: Like and I was standing on the corner and I may even have had my kids with me. And there was uh a man with a little boy, a child, and he looked at me. And he said to his father, Daddy, is that a witch? And the father, you know, he rolled his eyes. I mean, he's he he was He said something a little snotty. He said, you know, no, sonny, there's no such thing as witches, just people pretending. And the kid turned around and looked at me and I winked at him.

Laylla: You guys shared a little secret there, I think.

Chelle: I didn't say a word. I but I winked at him and that kid knew Daddy was not telling the truth.

Speaker 2: That's brilliant. The one thing I like about There's a couple of things. The shopping is unparalleled for witchy shopping.

Chelle: Yeah, definitely.

Speaker 2: But nowadays, I don't know how long it's been since you've been here, there are some of the the locals that are kind of like, oh, that witch thing. No matter what your flavor, you can walk down the middle of Washington Street or Essex Street and you could be looking and wearing however you want to look and what you want to wear and not a damn person's going to bat an eye and I mean, I I I see that guy walking down the street with like a pair of underwear on that were like pulled up over his shoulders and nobody looked. Nobody cares. No matter what your flavor.

Chelle: No. New York City's like that too. New York New York City's like that too.

Speaker 2: Yeah. No matter what your flavor, it's okay here.

Chelle: Get out. You can whatever. People are busy. They can't be bothered with you, whatever. If you're not bothering them, they're not bothering you.

Speaker 2: That's right. Exactly. Exactly.

Laylla: Yeah. It's a New York or a witch attitude, same thing.

Chelle: Although I remember before Salem was like that, I came back from I grew up on the East Coast, lived in California, came back in 2001 and I brought my kids up to Salem to see Salem. And you know, we went and saw the Chamber of Commerce, the little introductory film, Welcome to Salem. They didn't talk about witches at all. They were talking about ship building.

Speaker 2: Yep.

Chelle: It was shocking. So I I'm I'm glad to see the development.

Laylla: Yeah. It is home of the National Guard, but it is definitely turned into Witch City USA for sure.

Chelle: Yeah, definitely.

Laylla: I think we have Laurie Cabot to thank for that.

Chelle: Yeah. Yeah, definitely.

Laylla: She definitely put it on the map for sure.

Chelle: Yeah. Yeah, but that is that witch pride to, you know, when people call you And I mean, and of course, I'm not talking about people for whom it's dangerous and if they call you a witch, maybe they'll kill you or lock you up. That's not But I mean, if that's not the case, like you know, if you are an autonomous adult and somebody calls you a witch, don't cringe. It's a badge of honor. People I mean, this people will say to me all the time like, what do you write about? And I you know, oh, I write about witchcraft, magic spells. And they'll say or magic. And they'll say, oh, I don't believe in that. And I always say, oh, that's too bad. I'm so sorry for you, you know? They're trying to assert their superiority, but actually, and this is very sincere, I do feel sorry for them because

Speaker 2: They're missing something wonderful.

Chelle: Yeah, you're missing something wonderful. The world is a magical place that's full of mysteries and magic and wonders. And you don't believe in it? Well, you know, whatever. You know, too bad. Maybe someday you'll open your eyes.

Laylla: Not be quite so closed-minded and

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: That's a big part of being a witch, being open and learning and being willing to change your mind and being willing to learn new things.

Chelle: Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.

Laylla: And I think that's something that you know, I know I I said all you have to do to be a witch is to say you're a witch, but I do think that learning and being open-minded is a big

Chelle: That's that's where you start.

Laylla: Yeah. That's where you start, but I think getting that open mind is a big thing amongst witches.

Chelle: That's where you start. You know, we all have to think about what is a witch and and characteristics of witches. I think witches are people who like to know. And and that is the definition in a lot of languages of the word witch, the people who know. And what do they know? They know all kinds of stuff. They know the secrets of nature and the world and plants and all kinds of stuff. And I I think it keeps you young. You know, you always want to know. You want to learn something new. That's good.

Speaker 2: Never stop learning.

Chelle: Never stop learning.

Laylla: You know, if someone starts with your books, the Encyclopedia of 5000 Spells and the newest one, Witch Is a Compendium, they will certainly have enough reading to keep them busy for a while.

Chelle: Yeah. Yeah.

Laylla: One last question. One of your books is called Daily Magic Spells and Rituals for Making the Whole Year Magical.

Chelle: Yes.

Laylla: What are some things that you do daily that help you feel magical?

Chelle: I try to do everything. I try to keep them magic with everything. I I I am very aware And I'll give you a more direct answer, but I mean, I am very aware of colors and sounds and smells and directions and, you know, you're cooking, which way are you stirring? Little details like that.

Speaker 2: Just some mindfulness in your everyday stuff.

Chelle: Yeah. You know, when I teach in store, like in a classroom, as opposed to online, one of the you know, usually you you're teaching and you're sitting in a room and people come in and take their seats. And one of the things I do is I just watch people come in and what colors are they wearing because all kinds of colors have spiritual associations as well as maybe elemental associations or astrological associations. But you know, is is there a disproportionate number of people wearing purple or yellow or green? And it sort of it tells me what direction to go in. What is the spirit? Who are the spirits coming in? What are the spiritual forces in the room? And that's something that comes with time, you know, because they're you'll learn if you keep doing this and you keep reading and you keep studying and you know, it's really good to learn with other people cuz not everything is in books. And you know, you'll you'll pick up that vocabulary, the vocabulary of the powers of the world. And that makes everything very witchy. And what I do every day uh you know, I'm always asked what is my favorite spell. And I don't know I mean, it may not be my favorite spell because there are spells I love because they're beautiful or their construction. But I I do the invocation of Archangel Michael twice a day, morning and night. I was taught at at a time in the '80s when um I was not in a good place. A friend taught me how to do it. And you just do it. It's it's a verbal it's a verbal and a visualization. You can do it in 30 seconds if you have to. So it 's not it 's not hard and you don't have to have privacy. You can do it silently. And I was told to just if you get nervous, just do it. If you get scared, just do it. And I mean, there have been times in my life when I've done it like 12 times a day, but I still do it every morning and every like, you know, the morning and at night at some point I'll do it. And that's a And just surround myself with protective spirits and protection. And you may not be able to see this, but I'm like covered in amulets. Well, a lot of witches like, you know, were like magpies. We like to wear

Laylla: We like our shiny things, right?

Speaker 2: We like our shiny things.

Chelle: Yeah, we like our shiny. Yeah, yeah, yeah.

Laylla: You mentioned a daily practice and I I'm very big on trying to do things habitually because there's magic in that. When you do something over and over and over again,

Chelle: Yeah. Yeah.

Laylla: then you can kind of get lost in it and just kind of let that energy flow and and I love I love a daily practice. There's beauty there.

Chelle: Yeah. And it develops you know, like people talk about like I mean, I use cast iron pans and I've been told like, you know, for people who use walks, you get the walk, hey, the flavor of a walk that's been used continually for a long time. And if you're doing a daily practice, you too, you develop that flavor too.

Speaker 2: I like that.

Laylla: I like that. Ooh, a cooking and a magic reference. I am so there. I love that. That's perfect. I laugh because you talk about your favorite spell and my first thought was, you wrote a book about 5000 honey, you must have 5000 favorite.

Speaker 2: How could you pick?

Chelle: People well, that this is how I knew I was in trouble because I was supposed to be a 450-page book with you know, submission date matching that. And then I wrote the And it was not written consecutively. I did put my favorite spells in first. And some of my favorite spells are these really poetic, lengthy. I mean, there's these Moroccan spells involving gin. I love these spells. And they're not necessarily practical spells. And they're not necessarily spells that you're going to everybody's going to do on a daily basis, but they're just they're beautiful. And I I love them as spells. I love I love the art of spell casting and I appreciate you know, in the way that you can look at a beautiful painting or a wonderful dish of of food. I appreciate how these spells are constructed, but they're long. And you know, I had barely gotten anything done and I was already over 100 pages and I was like, you were in trouble.

Laylla: You're like, we're going to blow this limit out of the water here, so we're up.

Chelle: Yeah. Yeah.

Speaker 2: Now now my final question is, what advice would you give to either A, a newer witch or B, someone who, quote-unquote, like like Laylla and I are back on the broomstick, you know, someone who who maybe was connected in the past and had kind of a life break and is circling back to to their craft. What what advice would you give to either a new person or someone getting back on the broomstick?

Chelle: I love that. Two things. One, read everything. Like read for knowledge. Read to learn something. Not A lot of people read so that their beliefs are validated. I mean, that's fine a little bit, but so now you know you're right. Like whatever, where do you go from here? Read everything even if you don't like something because sometimes that helps you. If you read something and you don't like it, ask, what didn't I like about this? Because that will help you focus your own path. What is it that bothered me? Or you know, in a lot of books, there's one valuable thing in there and you got to like go through a lot of clutter to find that piece of gold. The other thing is follow what you love. What is it that you love? And it might not be obviously witchy. And I think that's one of the things that I think does appear in my book. There there are things that are very obviously witchy, like you know, the Halloween costume and the the black cat and you know, a black cat and you look at it and the witchcraft has so many forms. What do you love? If you love cooking

Speaker 2: But you don't think about it when you're thinking of things like baking or

Chelle: Right, but baking is magic. Baking is alchemy. I mean, alchemy is transmutation, it's transformation. You get from a bag of flour and a stick of butter and look at this amazing bread or cake.

Speaker 2: What you've created.

Chelle: Like how did you get from A to B? That's magic. You can cast this This one of the things I have in this book that I was never able to do in another book. And I know I keep going back to them, but it meant a lot to me to write it is the Art Witches. And these are painters who express their magic through paintings, through their art. And that's not really something you can you can write as an instruction for a spell. Like if you're a painter, I I can't tell you how to paint a painting, but it it's magic. So whatever you do and whatever you love, you can be magic with it. Just finding that magic.

Laylla: Oh, I love that.

Speaker 2: I love that.

Chelle: See, love.

Speaker 2: Just as a side note, it's kind of that that that theme of art magic, how I became such an obsessive tarot collector is I'm just enamored by all the artwork. I only really use the the Rider-Waite Colman deck, which is a new thing cuz I was very anti that for a lot of decades. And the the Witches Tarot, Ellen Cannon Reed, back from the '90s.

Chelle: Yeah. Yeah. Oh, yeah, that's great.

Speaker 2: But the reason I have several hundred is because there's some magic in that artwork. So I get what you're saying about that art magic because I see that in tarot cards and that's what made me a collector.

Chelle: Yeah. Yeah. I use um Kipling West Halloween tarot a lot.

Speaker 2: I have that, yeah. Yeah.

Chelle: I love that deck. I love that deck.

Laylla: Who doesn't love a good Halloween-themed deck? I mean, come on.

Chelle: Oh, Halloween every day.

Laylla: Do you have a favorite witch of TV, movie, book, you know, fictional witch? Do you have a favorite?

Chelle: I'm like a I mean, I'm like promiscuous with my love. I I love There it's I love a lot of

Laylla: I love it. Holly witchery.

Chelle: Holly witchery. Yeah, I mean, the older I get, the more I appreciate Endora. And I just Oh, yeah. because I was around when the show we saw on you know, initially. And of course, we all loved Samantha. And I think a lot of it when you were watching it in the early '60s, you were seeing Endora through And for those who don't know, you should go watch The Witch if you don't know what I'm talking about. It is it's a classic and it in its way, it's a culturally important show. It was really the first program to show a witch as a heroine. She was beautiful and nice. She was not sinful or evil or disgusting. It was radical for its time, but it was a time of mother-in-law jokes in general. And and we see her mother-in-law Endora, played by the wonderful Agnes Moorehead, through the eyes of the husband who is aggravated by her. And she was very much at that time, I think, attended as the villain. But the older I get, she's she's just phenomenal.

Laylla: When I was a little kid and I would watch those shows, she was my favorite. I just She was so spicy and just so interesting that I just adored her.

Chelle: Yeah. Yeah. I bet you you were smart. Yeah. Yeah.

Laylla: I liked the whole, you know what? If if if I don't like it, I'm just going to poof, make it not want it. Kind of like, I'm too old for this bullshit was kind of the vibe I got from Endora. I'm just too old for this shit.

Chelle: Right. Right. And she wasn't embarrassed by her witchcraft and the younger witches sometimes were.

Laylla: Yes.

Chelle: That that embracing it's an embrace of power. I think especially for women, we can have power and we don't have to apologize for it.

Laylla: Especially as we get older, I think we we embrace that power.

Chelle: Yeah, exactly.

Laylla: So hopefully through this show, through your books, we can help witches, all witches of any age embrace that power, be that spicy Endora.

Chelle: I hope so. Thank you so much Judika for joining us.

Laylla: Thank you.

Speaker 2: Where can people find you?

Chelle: I'm on Facebook, I'm on Twitter, I'm on Instagram. I I can be found.

Laylla: Awesome. We'll put your links up for everything. And again, Judika's newest book is Witches a Compendium and it is a fabulous look into witches of all types, witch tools, and it is just a very good, interesting read. You'll find witches in there you never heard of, I swear.

Speaker 2: We are kind of a we're honest folks. We don't we don't kind of sugarcoat this Judika, but we we really definitely recommend this to everybody and we're not just saying that cuz you're right here. This book is kick ass.

Chelle: Thank you.

Speaker 2: Honestly, I really hope you put out a part two. And if you're taking votes for that, my vote is for a part two.

Chelle: I would love to one day. Thank you.

Speaker 2: And once again, we want to give a shout out to Red Wheel Weiser Books. We appreciate you. We thank you and we thank Judika.

Laylla: Thank you so much for listening to this episode of Back on the Broomstick. And a huge thanks to Judika Illes for joining us. Please check out our YouTube channel Back on the Broomstick as well as our Blue Sky Facebook, Instagram, and our website Back on the Broomstick. If you have a question or just want to say hi, email us at backonthebroomstick@gmail.com. And of course, we do have a PO box. If you'd like to send us a letter or an example of your witchy goodies, we'll talk about it on air. Check out our PO box in the show description. And a huge thank you to all of our benefactors for your support and helping to keep the show on the air. We couldn't do it without you guys. Be wise, be wicked. And especially nowadays.

Speaker 2: Keep it witchy.
