Welcome to Back on the Broomstick, a modern witches' spoken word grimoire, where two witchy friends from way back are reconnecting to their pagan roots after a long period of mundanity. We're re-walking the path of the wise and trying out all the latest spells, rituals, and magical theory in today's witchcraft and pagan practices. So grab your wand and your incense, your cauldron and your crystals, and join us as we get back on the broomstick.

Laylla: Hi and welcome to Back on the Broomstick. I'm Laylla.

Chelle: And I'm Chelle. And on this episode, we'll be sitting down with the creator of the Tarot of the Cosmic Seed, Lalania Simone. This deck is flipping gorgeous.

Chelle: Now, I want I want people to take a seat and grab your tea because this one is going to throw you off the damn roller coaster. We all know the history of me and tarot decks. I have actually, and I'm so glad we're going to talk about this deck tonight because I have actually taken this deck out of the box. I have put it in my Lora Tempesta Sacra beautiful tarot bag, and I am actually carrying it with me. I am still carrying with me the Coleman Rider-Waite, you know, the Coleman Smith Rider-Waite, you know, the Smith-Waite.

Laylla: Smith-Waite.

Chelle: That one, the Smith-Waite Coleman deck. I'm still carrying that with me, but I I have put this in my bag. I think I'm going to use this one on the regular, Laylla. I'm glad everybody's sitting down for this because I know you are all sitting there in dumbfounded shock. I think I'm going to use this one on the regular. There.

Laylla: Well, do you remember when we made our Spotify blend and it was like 98% match?

Chelle: Yeah, because Spotify knows.

Laylla: Yeah, Spotify knows we're best friends. Well, guess who also put this deck in a bag and has been using it on the regular?

Chelle: Let's all show our surprised faces.

Laylla: Yeah, right? I took this deck out and from the moment I saw the purples and the glittery blue, and okay, I admit it, even the blue edges, I was hooked.

Chelle: You know, to be honest with you, the first card that pulled out to me, you know I have this this thing for dragonflies, the Lovers card. And the minute I saw that Lovers card, I was like, "Oh my god, I need that to be a tattoo."

Laylla: You stole that dragonfly thing from me. I like dragonflies.

Chelle: I probably did, but that's okay. That's okay.

Laylla: That's okay, we share everything. But for me, it's the Knight of Wands, but she calls it something different. It's the the Action of Wands. That card with the motorcycle, I just freaking love that card. These card Okay, so these cards are gorgeous. It's a collage-type deck with photos, with traditional artwork. It's put together edge-to-edge. The colors are jewel-toned, saturated, gorgeous.

Chelle: And I love cards that are edge-to-edge. I love that whole picture thing. And there, you know, I guess there's a use for having borders, but these are damn gorgeous. They they could be art pieces in and of themselves.

Laylla: The pictures are inclusive. The symbolism is full of depth and meaning. We both are using these cards on the regular because they're so powerful, they're so gorgeous, and they're so chalk-full of meaning. I can't put them down.

Chelle: I feel like the minute I put them in my hands, it was like they just gave out that vibe like, "I need to talk to you."

Laylla: Yes, you know what I mean? They're like, "I love you, let's talk."

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: I even the blue gilding, you know I usually hate gilding, and I it's growing on me, and I'll explain why in a minute. But these are gilded in blue, and it's stunning. I just love them.

Chelle: So, to join us in our wonderful discussion tonight about Tarot of the Cosmic Seed, we just happen to have the author. We would like to welcome Lalania Simone, the creator of the Tarot of the Cosmic Seed here with us today. Welcome, Lalania.

Lalania: Thank you. I'm so excited to be here.

Laylla: Now, I understand that the Tarot of the Cosmic Seed was originally a Kickstarter deck. Is that true?

Lalania: Yes, it was. About five, I want to say almost, you might be getting on towards five years or so, four or five years. Mhm.

Laylla: What inspired you to start that?

Lalania: Um, I had been reading the tarot, had um, I actually have a a metaphysical shop, and I had started reading the tarot, learning the tarot. And as I was doing that, um, I couldn't find myself in any of the tarot decks that that I was working with at the time. And so that inspired me to the idea of creating a deck, which um felt very daunting, the idea of creating 78 78 separate pieces of artwork. So, it was something I kind of put on the back burner. I didn't have, though I've been an artist my whole life, I didn't have the skill set in the digital world yet to to do it that way, and I knew that was going to have to be the way I did it. And um, and then I discovered Procreate. A friend of mine showed me Procreate, and and then it was the beginning of that path. And I literally did a few um tutorials, and then I kind of really learned how to do um that type of artwork as I was working on this deck.

Chelle: Now, my question is, when you do that and you go through that process, do you start at the beginning and work your way card through card through the progression, or are you kind of all over the place?

Lalania: The person that I am has to start at the beginning. And so I started with zero, and then I went through the majors, and then I I can decide which minor um suit to start. It can be any of them. But in that one, I started with the Cups. And so, yeah, then it would be the beginning to King and and so on.

Chelle: Okay. Interesting.

Lalania: Sometimes I'd be working on a card and I couldn't figure it out, and so I would skip it and do the next one and then come back.

Chelle: Okay. Okay.

Lalania: That happened every once in a while, but generally I went straight through.

Chelle: Because I'm just thinking, you know, if you're working on the Strength card, you know, what if the World is coming through to you?

Lalania: Mhm. Yeah. I think there was probably a few exceptions, but but all in all, yeah, it was a straight through.

Laylla: In this deck, there actually are 79 cards.

Lalania: Yes.

Laylla: You have a 23rd card in the Major Arcana called the Cosmic Seed, right?

Lalania: Yes.

Laylla: Did you go straight through to that as well, or or did you do that at the end?

Lalania: So, um, the first edition did not have the 79th card. When I did a second edition, I wanted to make it different so that it had something to add. Um, so I made some small adjustments to the artwork, and I changed the box and the card backs, and I added the the final card.

Chelle: Now, what was the inspiration behind the Cosmic Seed card? Because folks are used to that regimented 78, you know, that 78-card deck.

Lalania: Um, you know, I wanted to kind of open it up into the more infinite aspects that we all hold, that really none of the cards actually speak to. Um, you know, there's a there's magic in the Priestess, and, you know, there's some more expansive energies in some of the other cards, but I feel like this kind of opens us up to our pure potential. And not everything can be contained in these cards, and so this kind of gives you an opportunity to, you know, create your own way.

Chelle: I love that.

Laylla: Oh, that's funny. I just opened up to it, by the way.

Lalania: Oh, that's awesome.

Laylla: I love a deck with an extra card. One of my favorite decks to read with back when I read professionally is uh the Londa Tarot, and that also is a 79-card deck, the Who Are You Really card.

Lalania: Mhm.

Laylla: And I found that having a an extra card like that added so much more depth to readings when it would come up than I expected it to. But I'm looking forward to it because I do find that it's surprising how much one card, just adding one card, can really change everything and just give it so much more.

Lalania: I have a couple of decks, um, one of the decks that I love is one of the Noel decks. Oh my gosh, my cat. And um, she had like three cards in her Moonchild Tarot, I believe. And I actually had to take them out.

Laylla: Oh.

Lalania: And generally, I think, you know, when I do find decks that have the extra cards, I'll take them out because my brain, you know, it just throws me off. And so I I didn't know if people were going to keep it in or take it out.

Laylla: And you can, that's the thing. You know, you don't have to keep those in if you don't want to, you know. There's the freedom to do that. Now, you had mentioned a little bit ago, you said the Kings, but in your deck, one of the things that I I love and that makes this so much more inclusive and accessible is you don't have Kings and Queens. You don't have Pages and Knights.

Lalania: Mhm.

Laylla: One of my favorite cards in the whole deck is the Action of Wands because you have renamed the Knights to Action. And the energy coming off that particular card gets me every single time. I just I love it. What process did you go through to kind of decide to to rename, say, the the Pages are the Messengers, the Knights are the Actions, the Queens are now Nurturers, which I love because not all of the cards are feminine, but they're still the Nurturer. And the same thing with the Kings, they're called Mastery, and same thing, those are not all masculine cards, to kind of represent that we can be all of these things.

Lalania: Mhm.

Laylla: Tell me a little bit about the process, the thought process that went into that.

Lalania: Absolutely. Um, well, I took out all of the hierarchical, more colonial cards across the deck, including the Emperor and the Empress, because I wanted it to be accessible to the modern person who's reading it and has no connection to kings and queens. I also always had a hard time reading the courts. You know, people say that they they can or should be read as people in your life or people in your world, and I had a hard time with that. So, I decided that I was going to present them as more of an energy signature. And so I had to sit sit with that for a while, and I knew that the Queen was going to be the Nurturer and the King was going to be the Mastery, and it was really kind of trying to sort out what was I going to call the Pages and the and the Knights. And then, you know, after I sat with it for a while, it came through as this is the energy that we're we're working with here.

Chelle: And I like that because the one thing I think that sets this deck apart from the vast majority of decks, it is very inclusive, and it doesn't necessarily give the stereotypical gender assignments.

Lalania: Mhm.

Chelle: So, I like that inclusiveness where this deck is for all people of all flavors, and I love that.

Lalania: Awesome. Thank you. I did kind of still give, you know, the Nurturers and the Mastery, they all have crowns. You know, they still have their like their their regal energy to them. So, that's kind of still a nod to that traditional style.

Laylla: It's very traditional. This deck is very traditional. It follows the Smith-Waite symbology and imagery, reimagined. So, as much as it is new and fresh and wonderful, it's very easy to read as a reader. Whether you know the cards or not, if you know the traditional symbology of the Rider-Waite-Smith decks that you're used to, this will obviously come very easy to you, but there's so much more to it. There's meat to it. But if you don't know that, you can still pick up these cards and look at the richness of the color and the layering of the imagery that you've got in each card and come up with a story and let your subconscious and your intuition just flow with it in such a beautiful way.

Chelle: You know, it really was that artwork and imagery that kind of sucked me in immediately to this deck. You know, I I have a good share of my my own decks. I am a collector, addict, whatever you want to call it.

Laylla: Yes.

Chelle: I call it a a a lover of tarot. The first thing I usually do is I go through and I pull out the cards that immediately, that first look, first glance, pull me in and resonate with me. And, you know, Laylla and I look at a lot of decks, and there'll be times where I'll have five or ten or so, and I'll be like, "You know, that's a good five or ten. Great. If I was going to create a magpie deck, these five or ten would be in it." I couldn't stop with your deck. In the end, I ended up counting them because I was so like I was like, "What the hell? This is almost like a damn equal pile." I had 30 cards that immediately just first glance, opened the deck, first glance, 30 cards I put in my resonate pile. And it's not that the others did not resonate with me, it was just that at a first glance, I always base it on a first glance.

Lalania: Yeah.

Chelle: And there were 30 cards in that first glance.

Lalania: That's awesome.

Chelle: And I was like I'm like, "This deck is definitely got something to it." And the more I touched it and carried it around and shuffled it up and did one-card pulls with it, the more I kind of literally got tied to this deck. I love these pictures. They're very all-encompassing. I was telling Laylla before you came on, one of the first cards I saw was the Lovers card, and my first thought was, "I want a tattoo of this." You have such an array of artwork. And first of all, Laylla and I were talking, you do have some I don't want to call them like portrait cards necessarily, but there's cards that have people on them in in a fashion that they almost look like they could be real people in your life. Are some of these cards based on real people in your life?

Lalania: The one card that is a real person is the Messenger of Swords, who is my daughter.

Chelle: Oh.

Lalania: And the rest of them are cards that I pulled from stock imagery and open source and public domain imagery.

Chelle: I hope your daughter appreciates that more than anything in the world.

Lalania: She does.

Laylla: That's pretty amazing because the people in these cards are part of what draws me to it. They seem very alive and very vibrant. And so when you look at these cards, their expressions add so much, you know. Everything about them gives more meaning and depth to the card. So, I'm a little surprised there's just one person that's somebody that you know because they just they're so expressive.

Lalania: The thing about some creating something like this is the process of finding the imagery probably took longer than anything else.

Laylla: Mhm.

Lalania: Because to find that perfect frequency to represent that card and to have them really embody that is really not an easy thing to to do.

Chelle: No.

Lalania: And I didn't realize it was going to be so complicated when I started. And so sometimes I would um just really create a library of images that I loved that I hoped maybe one of at some point when I get to the card, I'll be able to go through these images and I'll be able to say, "Oh, that's the one." It was the most complicated part of it. Because also, I want them to have their their arms in the in the right place, or if you're going to hold a cup, or you're going to hold a sword, or, you know, there's all these different aspects that were just kind of tedious.

Chelle: Tedious, yeah.

Lalania: Yes, tedious.

Laylla: Well, that's a part of the magic. Like, we've talked about spell work before, and part of the magic of that is going to look for the ingredients, you know. If you don't have, say, a particular thing and you need to substitute it with something else, part of the magic is going to find that, putting your energy towards that. So, just you spending all that energy looking for just the right thing added to the energy of these cards. Now, this one, the Eight of Coins, this is just a gorgeous card. And Chelle and I both read charms, we do a little bit of charm casting, and that's exactly what this card reminds me of. It's like my grandmother's table with the buttons.

Chelle: I was going to say, reminded me of my grandma.

Lalania: Mhm.

Laylla: It's so bright, and it's buttons and coins, and it looks like peonies and scissors, and there's just so much to each of these cards. From what I understand, your mom gave you your first tarot deck?

Lalania: Yes, she did. I was um, I want to say I was somewhere between 18 and 20. And I believe the first deck she gave me was the Daughters of the Moon. You know this deck?

Chelle: Oh, I know that one.

Lalania: It's a circular deck. It went out of print quite a long time ago. They end up making a second deck, which I can't remember the name of now, um, which is still in print through US Games. But that one was very impactful for me. It was um each one, each card is a goddess, I believe, and I really loved that.

Chelle: I like when cards kind of veer away from the traditional stereotypes that the Rider-Waite decks kind of stuck with.

Lalania: Mhm.

Chelle: I always looked at myself as a Magician, but according to Rider-Waite, the Magician is always a man.

Lalania: Mhm.

Chelle: So, I I really like decks that kind of veer away from that that norm.

Lalania: Mhm. Yeah, I appreciate that too.

Laylla: One thing about this deck, and listeners of our podcast will know that I'm not a huge fan of gilding. However, it's growing on me. And your deck kind of really was the one to change my mind. I don't like gilding because it it tends to flake and peel and dent very quickly if you use a deck.

Lalania: And crack, yeah.

Laylla: Yeah, if you use it a lot, that gilding stops looking pretty very quickly. And so it was kind of a a complaint of mine.

Lalania: Mhm.

Laylla: But the blue on this, first of all, is gorgeous. And secondly, mine's rock solid still.

Chelle: Oh, mine is not.

Laylla: I realized that that's part of growth, right? We're not always going to be bright and shiny and beautiful. As you as you have adventures, as you as you go through your life, you're going to start to pick up some nicks and some chips, and you're not going to be quite as sparkly as you were before.

Lalania: Right. Yeah, actually, that's awesome.

Laylla: But you're going to be unique, and you're going to you're going to show some of these things that you have done in your life. And I think that's okay.

Chelle: With nicks come wisdom.

Lalania: And you also have the memory too. Like, you can remember the shine and, you know, that kind of will give you a little warm feeling in your heart.

Laylla: Mhm. And you know, honestly, I think they're kind of more beautiful now that they're not, quote unquote, perfect. They're much richer and have more stories to tell, I guess. I don't even mind the the gilding. Do you use tarot regularly? Do you do tarot pulls for yourself?

Lalania: Um, so I find that it comes in and out of my life. Mhm. Um, in my shop, for about a year and a half, I read for the public. And um, I realized that that was hard for me to give myself in that way.

Laylla: Yeah.

Lalania: And so I often will pull oracle cards for myself. And I also have an oracle deck out, it's called the Oracle of Awakening.

Chelle: Beautiful.

Lalania: Um, which I really actually love pulling those cards because I feel like that was very channeled. And so I'm always like, when I read the book, I'm like, "Wow, that's awesome." But um I'm like, "Thank you, spirit, for that message." But, no, not not as often as you would think. I really feel like my my connection to it is through the artwork. And I'm constantly working on on a deck. Like, there's, you know, one coming through Red Feather/Schiffer. I'm actually in the midst of another one that I'm going to Kickstarter here in a few.

Chelle: Ooh, you are piquing my interest.

Lalania: That part of me is like always. Like, I'm knitting, or I'm making jewelry.

Laylla: You're a maker. That's what really struck me is that you you do all these different things, and you create art. You're a metalsmith. You just said you're a knitter. You know, you always have these projects going. Is that how you kind of express that mystic energy in your life? Is that how you kind of get that out there?

Lalania: I feel like it is the, it is what makes my life worth living and breathing outside of my child, who is now 20, so she's grown up and moved away.

Chelle: Child.

Lalania: It really is. Like, I, I, you know, if I'm sitting in front of, in front of the TV, I have a, a project in my lap. It's, it's just, it's like what makes life happy for me.

Laylla: Everybody has different ways of contributing to the world on all different kind of levels, and I feel like this is your great spiritual contribution to the world, and I thank you for it because I am so in love with this.

Lalania: You know, my, my intention really was to touch people so that they could see themselves from wherever they were in the world.

Laylla: Mission accomplished.

Lalania: I love that. Thank you so much. That means a lot.

Chelle: You have other projects that you have created before, and your oracle deck is a similar type of collage art.

Lalania: Mhm.

Chelle: It looks like it could be a companion to this. Like, I want to get both of them and use them together. I want to use the oracle deck on top of the tarot deck and really see how the, the energies there kind of go because that's another thing about this deck. Now, I'm going to get a little mystic for people. I'm going to get a little witchy here, but Chelle and I both, when we pulled this deck out of the box, could feel the joy and the happiness and the energy and the light. It, it literally came out of the box feeling like...

Laylla: Love.

Chelle: Yeah, and just good, strong energy. I, I just love what you put in here. But I think your Kickstarter came with like a journal. Is there ever any thought that you might put out like that journal type book with the artwork in it because that was gorgeous.

Lalania: Um, so the first Kickstarter did have a journal with all the majors, full color, and I may have one or two of those left somewhere around here. What I'd love to do if the, if the tarot does well for Red Wheel and, you know, they're able to keep, keep it around and keep publishing it, I would love to do an expanded, accompanying book.

Chelle: Yeah.

Lalania: Because that was my first, of course, my first deck, and I really put so much into the artwork, and I had worked on it for so long. When I got to the book, I was like, okay, let's, you know, let's get some important pieces of information but keep it short and sweet.

Chelle: Mhm.

Lalania: And I've had a lot of requests for some, um, expanded information that kind of touches on the symbolism and the choices and the colors and all of that, and I would like to be able to offer that at some point. So, I hope that maybe we could do a deluxe set, you know, a few years in or something.

Laylla: This would definitely be the perfect deck to have a color book companion with, absolutely. And I could see something like that being a standalone, an excellent standalone book, too.

Lalania: Awesome.

Chelle: Now, talking about that, with, with all of that being said, was there anything in particular in this deck that you loved working on? Like, was there a suit or a particular card that, that really made you happy or that you, you more enjoyed than any other? What's that?

Lalania: There's several cards that I really love. I love the, the Seven and the Eight of Cups.

Chelle: Oh.

Lalania: I enjoyed those so much because those came from really just the feeling of what those cups could mean. I mean, what those cards can mean. The Seven is, um, hands kind of in the ocean, and there's these little bubbles with the different options, um, all the different possibilities in front of you.

Chelle: Oh, yes.

Lalania: And the Eight is, um, is like a very old ruin that is set in the sky with eight bowls of water full of roses, and you can walk through the portal kind of, and, and so, for me, that's a very meaningful card. The, the Rider-Waite kind of has that as like a going away or leaving or kind of endings or, you know, there's a few ways to read that, but I've always loved reading that card as like leaving the material behind and, and going deeper into the spiritual.

Chelle: Oh, yeah.

Lalania: And so, that's what that, that's what that feels like for me.

Chelle: Mhm.

Lalania: And then, one of the cards I really loved was the Ten of Wands.

Chelle: Oh.

Lalania: Because to balance the energy, that card has, um, a woman who is, has baskets over her shoulders, and one of them has her child in it.

Chelle: Child in it, yes.

Lalania: And I wanted to really portray that, you know, sometimes we have to carry a heavy load. It's not for forever. And sometimes, you know, it's a load that we gladly carry. And it doesn't mean that it's not hard.

Laylla: Right, right.

Lalania: So, I kind of feel like that really kind of captured that.

Chelle: What a beautiful way to envision that. I, I love how you put that, and all of these cards are envisioned that way. Now, the colors on them are very jewel-toned. You know, they're all very rich, deep colors.

Lalania: Mhm.

Chelle: And was there a reason why you kind of strayed away from the, the more, I guess they're not really pastels, but brighter colors of say like the traditional Smith-Waite decks?

Lalania: I am definitely a jewel-tone girl. Like, if you were to look at my clothing when I go out into the world, I'm in magentas and turquoise and teal, and that's how I roll. And also, as I started this whole digital art, I just went with the colors that I loved, and I didn't really have color theory. I don't have any like, I don't have any training.

Chelle: Mhm.

Lalania: And so, that's why also there's like, every card is like its own piece of art, and it doesn't necessarily mean the first card is going to go with the fourth card, right, visually, because they're each just their own creation.

Laylla: They're almost standalone art.

Lalania: They really are. It's really a trip. Like, now going forward, the works that I'm doing, they all have a different level of coherence. So, I love this deck because it's just so free. Like, I didn't have any of those constrictions or expectations. I was just trying to, to get each card done in the way that felt right. And now, I'm like, okay, well, can we have a color theme for each of these suits? Like, you know, everything has changed. But, yeah.

Laylla: This, this, the whole, the whole color scheme of these just, it's a part of the ambiance that makes this deck so wonderful. The, the purples, the blues, the turquoise, like, it just all works. It all, everything came together so perfectly with this deck.

Lalania: Sometimes when I look at that deck and I see like, you pull out the, the Sacred Masculine card, and it's just like, here, yellow, and everything else is so purple and, so, it's kind of funny to me when I see it laid out sometimes. I'm like, yeah, that was an interesting choice.

Chelle: You see the bright ones out. Yeah, well, because as you're working through it, you're, you don't necessarily know what combination is going to come up and how that's going to present itself to other people. Now, in the booklet, there was a, a little tarot spread that you put in there.

Lalania: Mhm.

Chelle: And is that something that you created?

Lalania: Yes, that's my, my go-to spread. That's how I read when I read for anyone or myself. The only addition is that I now have two cards, um, below that card. So, it looks like a tree. There's the trunk.

Chelle: Oh, okay. Okay.

Lalania: I pull the first card, which is the center card. That represents the person. That's the first card, and then I pull two cards under that. That's the root.

Chelle: Oh, okay. Okay.

Lalania: And then, I continue with pulling the cards. I like the root because that kind of gives you some, um, some place to kind of understand why we're here in the present. So, it doesn't necessarily mean the past. It could be, it could be current events that are impacting why this present card is here.

Laylla: Kind of like the base.

Lalania: Exactly.

Laylla: Could be what's holding you down or holding you steady.

Lalania: Mhm.

Chelle: Awesome. I really liked that spread, actually. I am, I am a spread fanatic. Chelle and I create them, collect them, all that stuff. So, when I used it, I was like, ooh, this is good. And so, I was very happy with it when I first tried it out. I'm going to, if you wouldn't mind, would it be okay if I put up a graphic with the extra two cards at the bottom?

Lalania: Absolutely.

Chelle: Perfect. I'll definitely credit it to you, but I, I want to show our listeners with the extra two cards. I'm going to try that right after we're done recording. I'm going to pull those cards and see how it goes.

Lalania: Yeah, throw those, throw those, throw that root in there. It just kind of gives you a little more context for everything and, and I like that.

Chelle: I do, too. So, you, so this is the, the spread that you tend to go to?

Lalania: Yeah, this is kind of my go-to. Sometimes still like, I'll get hired to do like an event, and I'll just do...

Laylla: I was going to ask you if you still read publicly.

Lalania: Yeah, every once in a while, like, something will come up and, you know, like I said, I have a little, uh, metaphysical shop here in Denver, and we get called sometimes, and they'll be like, "I'm having this event, and we're looking for a reader for like three hours," and if, if it feels like a good match, then I'll go out and do it, and I'll just do five-card spreads.

Chelle: Yeah, it's, it's hard to give yourself like that, though. It's hard to put yourself in front of people like that and, and, and read for them, to be open like that for a couple hours. So...

Laylla: It's a big energy exchange.

Lalania: Yeah, I always feel like, um, for me, tarot reading was an opportunity to give spiritual counsel, and I'm, I'm sure all tarot readers feel like that to some degree, is someone is coming to you with whatever is going on in their life, and they are looking for some guidance, and so, my connection with spirit is such that I would use the cards as a framework to bring through the, the energies and the, the messages for this person. So, that kind of, we had a visual representation of what was happening. And so, that's, that's what felt like was happening for me, and it was powerful to be able to do that, but also, I realized I was drained every time, and even though I would put protection and I would do all these things, I was like, you know, I just don't know that that's for me. And I still love and respect the people who do it. We have some incredible readers at our shop, and I'm always just amazed at them.

Laylla: But you can get gassed out very easily. You really can.

Lalania: Yeah.

Laylla: Now, you said that you are in the middle of, uh, working on a new deck. Is that a tarot or an oracle?

Lalania: So, I right now am working on a deck that is called the Myth Weaver Tarot.

Chelle: Ooh.

Lalania: And it is, um, every card, I'm doing kind of a linocut style digital technique. So, every, um, figure on the card is black, and then all of the details have been carved out.

Chelle: Ooh.

Lalania: And so, really, you can see, it's just like the black, and then we have, you know, I'm all about the backgrounds.

Chelle: Mhm.

Lalania: And I use vintage flowers everywhere in this deck, and so, every single card represents either a god, um, a deity of some sort, or a mythological figure, or a mythological creature from world mythologies, to, from like the very common ones to the more obscure ones. I really want to represent, you know, like Santería and, um, the Aztecs and the Maori and all types of different mythologies that people aren't really familiar with.

Chelle: Yes, you hear the Greek and the Celtic mythologies all the time. It's nice to get more.

Lalania: Mhm, exactly. So, there's a little Greek, there's a little Celtic, and then there's the Mayan, and we have Japanese, and so, I'm deep in it now, probably just over halfway done. And so, that's really, really exciting.

Chelle: Oh, congratulations. That's a good marker.

Laylla: That sounds like something I need on my wishlist.

Lalania: Yes. I will send you the, um, so, I do have the Kickstarter launch page up.

Laylla: Oh, okay. I'll put links to it.

Lalania: Okay, awesome.

Laylla: Just for me personally, how, what is the transition from Kickstarter to, to, like, because this deck, um, we got through on Red Wheel Weiser. What's the transition from like Kickstarter to Red Wheel? How, is that difficult?

Lalania: So, I, I had started working on, so, my third deck was, is called, um, the Wise Earth Medicine Tarot. And that is, um, a tarot deck that is all nature. So, it's plant, animal, and insect, and each card has a traditional meaning, but it also has the medicine that is being offered from that particular animal or plant. And so, it kind of doubles as a tarot/oracle, and the cards are oracle-sized. And so, I presented that to, um, Red Wheel Weiser, and I introduced myself in a, in a proposal and said, "This is what I, who I am, this is what I've done, this is, um, how I can show you that I am established, and that I have a platform, and this is what I'm working on," and they were super excited, and I was hoping that they would take my Wise Earth, and they said, "We want all, we want all of them. We want all three."

Chelle: Yeah, I don't blame them.

Lalania: Yeah, that was, uh, it was a big surprise. I actually had originally also received an offer for the Wise Earth from a different tarot company that we all know, but they weren't as kind, and, and so, it was very easy to make a, um, a really lovely decision to a, an offer that I couldn't refuse.

Laylla: We love Red Wheel.

Lalania: Yeah, they're so good.

Laylla: They're so great there.

Lalania: They're so kind, they're so loving, they wrap around me in this beautiful way, and they've, they've just been incredible every step.

Laylla: And between y'all, you've brought us a freaking fabulous tarot deck that I just, I can't get over it. And I, I'm just shocked that I have found a deck that has taken me back like this because it is a rare instance. It really, really is.

Chelle: She collects them. She does not use them all. There's like two or three she'll use on the regular. So, me falling in love with a deck and using it, it happens once in a while, but her, it's like super rare.

Laylla: Rare, and I love this so much, so, so, so much.

Lalania: Oh, I love it because that means you feel the spirit of it. That means you feel my spirit.

Laylla: Thank you.

Lalania: And that means a lot to me. Thank you.

Chelle: Yes, and it's beautiful.

Laylla: Thank you.

Chelle: It comes through on your Instagram, too. I do, I do follow you on Instagram. I'll put links to your Instagram in the show description, but it comes through there, too, just your loving spirit and...

Lalania: Aw.

Chelle: You describe a little bit on your Kickstarter page about growing up in Denver, and you were a little bit of a wild child, and then you said in your early 20s, you kind of felt that magic, you felt that call, and Colorado to me, the whole place is magic, so, I'm, I'm not surprised that you felt that there, but would you mind telling us a little bit about that, that moment in your life?

Lalania: So, I grew up in the '80s. I am generation, what, generation, what are we, X, they called us. So, I grew up in the hood in Denver when crack and gangs was running the streets, was running my neighborhood. It's, it's really, my experience was a lot of danger, violence, there was death, there was, it was crazy. I went to Catholic school in the middle of the hood, and it was the nuns that really held us and kind of kept us, um, grounded in all of that madness. And so, we were very Catholic. And my mom actually even worked for the church at the time. When I became, when I turned 19, I moved to San Diego with a girlfriend of mine, and I was, I was, I've always been an artist, and I was looking for, I went to the library to look for goddesses. I had heard of Greek goddesses, and I wanted to draw them, and I accidentally found the goddess religion. And I had a spiritual awakening because I had no idea there was anything else. This is the '80s, there's no internet. Right, right. There's books. And, um, and I hadn't explored anything outside of my religion. And so, it was a spiritual awakening, and I came to understand that becoming awake, consciousness, was really an unfolding that happened throughout your life, and it wasn't just, there was no end to it. It's just going to continue, and, and I, I decided to devote myself to that. And so, at a very young age, I was 19, maybe 20, that's when I started meditating and, and really, um, devoting myself to a spiritual path, and whatever that looked like.

Chelle: Mhm.

Lalania: And so, that's just been unfolding around me since.

Chelle: And then your mom, who worked at the church, gave you your first deck, and the rest is history.

Lalania: Isn't that awesome? Well, she said that she had, you know, she had grown up Catholic, and she wanted to give us a spiritual foundation. And so, that was kind of the, what she knew as well. And so, actually, she's also, during that time after I left, um, expanded into her own spiritual path, and even for a while, had joined a coven. She, she's a very wise woman.

Chelle: I love that. I love that you guys kind of went through that. It sounds like almost at the same time.

Lalania: At the same time, yeah.

Chelle: Yeah, that's so cool. Yeah, my mom did something similar. She now describes herself as a heathen, but...

Lalania: Oh.

Chelle: You know, it took her a little while to kind of come to that, but she's this cute, she's awesome. She's like 72, 73, and, and she just runs around, and she won't say she's a witch, but she'll say she's a heathen. So, I think it's adorable.

Laylla: I think knowing your mother, I think she just likes calling herself a heathen.

Chelle: Yeah, it's true.

Lalania: It's the shock value.

Laylla: Really is, it really is.

Chelle: Yep, she does a great job with that. But tell your mother thank you because...

Lalania: Yes.

Chelle: Because I do, I really do love this deck. I have gotten a lot of, you know, I've used it during meditation, I've used it during my daily card pulls, and I can't pull just one. I tend to pull at least three, five, or do a whole spread, partly because they speak to each other, and they speak to me so well. The, the stories come out from them very, very clearly. Like we said at the beginning, this is something that a, a seasoned reader will find so much meaning in, but a beginner will also be able to grab these cards and just dive right in with no problem.

Laylla: Absolutely.

Chelle: So, I do love that about them. But thank you so much for coming on the show, Lalania. I really appreciate it.

Lalania: Thank you. And thank you, thank you for creating this. Above all things, thank you because this is, this is a gift to the universe. It really is. Thank you.

Lalania: Thank you for seeing me.

Laylla: Thank you, and everyone can see themselves in this deck. This deck is not just, as much as I love Pamela Colman Smith and her artwork, it's all...

Laylla: It's like 1800s theme, yeah.

Chelle: Yeah, and, and this includes everyone. This looks more like what I see when I go out in the world, and I think that that's important.

Laylla: Can you, uh, tell our listeners where can we find you on all your socials and contact info?

Lalania: So, um, the deck is available at any large distributor now, target.com, amazon.com, but you can also get it directly from Red Wheel and Weiser. I am at lalaniasimone.com if you want to read more about me. And my Instagram is the.cosmicseed. My upcoming Kickstarter is called the Myth Weaver Tarot, so you can Google that, and it'll pop up on Kickstarter, um, as a launch.

Chelle: We're going to make sure people can find you because we know there's going to be a lot of our listeners who are going to want to get their hands on this deck, so.

Laylla: They're going to be shocked that I actually found a deck that I want to use on the regular, and that alone is going to spark interest.

Lalania: That's awesome. I'm so glad. Thank you for being on my side.

Chelle: Yes. Oh my gosh, very much so, especially nowadays, man. We all need to stick together.

Lalania: It's been such a joy to chat with you two. You guys are both lovely, and thank you for having me.

Chelle: Thank you so much, too, Lalania Simone, for joining us on this episode.

Laylla: This was so fun. I love when we get to do this.

Chelle: I love her. She's amazing, and her artwork, I'm just in love with that, too.

Laylla: I am being serious. This deck is worth a look-see. You know it takes a lot to please me, and this one knocked it out of the park.

Chelle: It's fantastic. If you are okay with a collage-style deck, and I know not everyone is, it's not as collagey as the Ancestor Tarot.

Laylla: Right.

Chelle: But it is collagey. So if you're not a fan of that, you might not like this, but it's still gorgeous. But we'll put links to everything in the show notes, and you can also check us out at backonthebroomstick.com, on Instagram, on Facebook. You can also check out our amazing fan-run Facebook group, Back on the Broomstick Podcast Discussion Group.

Laylla: I love those people on that, by the way.

Chelle: Those witches are awesome.

Laylla: Fabulous group of folks.

Chelle: The conversations, the tips, the tricks, the magic that's going on in that group, and we jump in once in a while, too.

Laylla: Check us out.

Chelle: If you want to send us an email, backonthebroomstick@gmail.com. You can also give us some likes, some reviews, some stars. We love all of it. So thank you again for listening. We will see you next week. Be wise, be wicked.

Laylla: And keep it witchy, folks.
