Chelle: Welcome to Back on the Broomstick, a modern witches' spoken word grimoire, where two witchy friends from way back are reconnecting to their pagan roots after a long period of mundanity. We're rewalking the path of the wise and trying out all the latest spells, rituals, and magical theory in today's witchcraft and pagan practices. So grab your wand and your incense, your cauldron and your crystals, and join us as we get back on the broomstick.

Laylla: Welcome to Back on the Broomstick. I'm Laylla, and on this episode, we are thrilled to welcome Laurie Farrington, a seasoned intuitive, psychic medium, and spiritual mentor who brings over 25 years of experience walking in the stars. Laurie's work centers on empowering others to connect with their own inner knowing, navigate their spiritual side, and live with authenticity and purpose. Laurie offers her services on her website, YouTube channel, and through several books. And her most recent book is *How to Read and Interpret a Birth Chart: Guideposts for Understanding Natal Astrology*.

Chelle: And I'm Chelle, and this is going to be the most confused I am in an episode ever, guys. I am very excited. I am I am interested in astrology, but it is definitely far from my forte. So Laurie, we welcome you to the show, and tell us a little bit about yourself and your astrology background before we kind of dive into the nitty-gritty.

Laurie: Well, I am delighted to be here. Let me say that first. And astrology has just always been my passion. From the time I think I was seven years old, the first time I saw the symbols on a little book by the grocery store checkout.

Laylla: I remember those!

Laurie: Yeah, I saw those when I, like I said, when I was about seven years old, and I don't know what it was, but the symbols themselves just called to me really loudly. And I begged and pleaded with my mother to buy me those little little tiny books, and I memorized everything I could. And, you know, I have spent the rest of my life since then chasing those symbols. I knew there was something in them that I had to understand. So that's that's where it all began.

Laylla: It's amazing how sometimes these things can really reach out and call to us, even when we don't understand what they are.

Laurie: Yeah, I had no idea. It's like, what are those little squiggly lines, and what do they mean?

Laylla: Astrology has always been one of those esoteric pursuits that you would see regularly. It was commonplace to see magazines like that, you know, in the supermarket, and you would see people's horoscopes in the newspaper and in magazines all the time. I mean, since the '80s, it's been very common to see astrology around. But I think a lot of us realize, after first reading horoscopes, that there's more to it than the superficial, "this is what your daily horoscope means." And, you know, I think that diving in beyond that that superficial is where you really start to get into the interesting parts of astrology.

Laurie: Absolutely. Yeah, people tend to think, you know, "I'm a Sagittarius," or "I'm an Aries," or whatever the sun sign is, they tend to think that's who they are. And that's such a tiny piece of it. And, you know, it's interesting because there's there's many astrologies all over the world. There's Indian astrology, there's Vedic astrology. You know, what we're talking about here is Western astrology. It is not based on the constellations. It's based on the seasons. It's very much based on the seasons. And, you know, there's just what you hear about astrology in today's world, you hear a lot about what's called mundane astrology, which is what's going on in current time. You know, people tend to know when Mercury's retrograde or when there's going to be an eclipse or—

Chelle: Is that like when Facebook tells me what my horoscope for the day is?

Laurie: Yes. Okay. Yes. I mean, there's there's different kinds, different ways of looking at it. And my focus really is natal astrology, which comes from the moment you took your first breath. You breathe in the energy of the patterns at that moment in time. I think of, you know, astrology really is a study of time. And I think of there being a river of time that goes by us, and when we take that first breath, it's like that split second of time is removed from the river of time and handed to you, and it's your job to incorporate the gifts and the challenges that were inherent in that moment.

Laylla: Wow, that's pretty deep.

Laurie: It's profound, really.

Laylla: That was one of the things I really loved about your book, to take it back to your book for just a second, because it was it was like a workbook for me. But I'm going to say that in the beginning, you talked a lot about cycles and finding the cycles in the stars and bringing those cycles back to Earth. So it struck me when you said that Western astrology follows the seasons. It went back to you talking about those cycles, and that resonates with me as a witch because we're very connected to cycles in so many different levels. And I didn't know that about Western astrology. I didn't realize that it was cyclical like that. Can you explain that a little bit?

Laurie: A lot of people follow and understand the cycle, the lunar cycle. You know, you've got the new moon, goes to the first quarter, the full moon, the last quarter, back to the new moon. So that's the lunar cycle. But you can expand that out, and any two planets has a similar cycle. So you could take like, I don't know, Venus and Uranus, and when they come together, it's like a new moon, only it's those two planets that start a cycle. So all of the pairs of planets are creating their own cycles that are impacting our individual birth charts. And we're born in the midst of a whole series of different cycles. It it is complicated.

Chelle: Now, why do I feel like, and and you haven't mentioned this yet, but here's my fear with—I know nothing about astrology other than I'm a Gemini.

Laylla: And boy, does she know it.

Chelle: I feel like—yeah, I do. I feel like there's a lot of math involved. Is that true, or is that just one of those scary tactic things?

Laurie: Well, back in the day, there was a lot of math involved. We had to sit down and, you know, chart all this stuff. It was very, very complicated. In today's world, we plug the information into the computer, and it gives us it gives us the information. You know, you can you can work with the math of it, but you don't really need that anymore.

Chelle: So someone like me who is absolutely scared of math, not my forte at all, that that's what's kept me from astrology all these years. It's probably the one thing that I've never delved into because me and math are like, no. And I felt like if you're not good at math, you're not going to be good at astrology.

Laurie: That's absolutely not true. Okay. I mean, yeah, you might come into places that are a little confusing, but you don't need to know that part. Okay. Even, I mean, I work with people who know absolutely nothing about astrology. One of the things that I've really focused on is my desire has always been, make this usable to anyone. It doesn't need to be, you know, I there's a lot of astrologers, I think, that have had this like, you know, "we're special, and we have this special knowledge that no one else can come near to."

Laylla: Gatekeeping.

Laurie: Yeah, and I don't like that. I want to make this—I know what astrology has done for me in my life. It has enabled me to become a decent human being. You know, seriously, when I was young, I was not a very nice person. And knowing astrology and using it to understand myself and other people just cracked me open in a way that I want people to be able to understand and love themselves and other people through this perspective that astrology gives us. And we don't need to complicate it in huge ways. You know, you can get as complicated as you want with astrology. But, you know, if you read somewhat my book, I I got the best compliment about my book recently from an old a student that studied with me at my kitchen table like 35 years ago. And she wrote to me, she said, "I just read your book, and I felt like I was sitting at your kitchen table." And that just meant so much to me because that's what I wanted when I wrote the book. I was writing it to my students. I was writing it to people that want to really understand the natal chart.

Laylla: Now, I'm going to add to that, and I'm going to say, yes, it does feel like I'm sitting at your kitchen table, but only if you're a very serious professor who has a lot of knowledge to impart and is giving me a lot of information. Because I I don't know a lot about astrology, and I I did read through this book, and it was not easy, but it was so good. And I really loved that you included charts of famous people. We found Lizzo, and who else did we find, Chelle?

Chelle: Um, I found the rising information for Janis Joplin.

Laurie: Ah.

Laylla: What made it really actually accessible for me—I'm not going to say easy because that's the wrong word—was that you had these charts in here. And so when it finally started to click for me was when I would take these charts or my chart, just generating, like you said, a free one that I could look at, and then going back and reading the passage and relating it to the chart that I was looking at. So I did have to do that. It made more sense to me when I could look at it right on that chart, and then it started to click. And as I went through the book, I was starting to see it not so much as math and rising signs, but more like a Tarot spread, more like a charm casting spread or tasseography. I started to see in these pictures where they were sitting in their houses, where they lay, and just like in a Tarot spread, how they created a story, how they wove together a narrative. So your book is not easy. Yes, sitting at your kitchen table sounds fun, but it's a lot of work, too. And so I did start to get it, but it it did take working through it. But it's starting to make sense and be very cool in that way to me. So thank you.

Laurie: Yeah, if you're interested in understanding your own chart, if you've got a copy of your chart in whole sign house system—I want to just reiterate that, there's different house systems.

Laylla: Oh, many.

Laurie: So many. And whole sign makes it much less dependent on knowing math. I mean, that's one of the one of the reasons I started working with whole sign house system is it's easier. And after working with different house systems over many years, you don't lose anything. It makes it a lot easier, and it's just as powerful. I love it. It makes things a lot easier and a lot less, yeah, dependent on math. I mean, yeah.

Chelle: Now, if you were going to—say you knew nothing, because Laylla's actually a a step above me in astrology knowledge.

Laylla: Not saying much.

Chelle: Now, you know, everybody pretty much knows the sign they were born under. If they just wanted to kind of scratch the surface and get in, any particular things they should focus on? Like, I remember 20, 30 years ago, the big thing was knowing your rising and what that meant. If you knew like your birth sign, your rising, your sun, your moon, you know, is there a scratching the surface starting point, or is this just a dive all in and get all the houses and just go for broke?

Laurie: You have to take it one step at a time. You really do. And sun, moon, and rising are the basic place to start.

Chelle: Okay.

Laurie: And if you know, you know, you can take those three pieces. The sun is the core of who you are. The moon is your emotional nature, your greatest need of the personality. And the rising sign is sort of how people see you, kind of the mask that you wear. Not a mask to hide behind, but the mask that allows you to show up in the world in an authentic way. And if you know those three things, you can kind of go out from there. You know, the way to think of it is, there's the planets. Each planet is a particular piece of who we are. We can think of it as the planets are our internal teachers. And the signs that they're in are the method that they use to teach us. And then the houses are different areas of life. So wherever the planet lands, it's teaching you with the method of the sign in that area of your life. You know, you can kind of create this thing where you can just make little sentences of these different parts of—we are complicated.

Laylla: Yes.

Laurie: We're incredibly complicated.

Laylla: I know I'm relating it to Tarot because that's the system I'm most familiar with, but boy, is this an awful lot like a Tarot spread. It's just it's the planets putting it into a particular pattern and not me. But it's really very much like Tarot.

Laurie: I love how you talk about it that way because I, you know, I work sometimes with just thinking about the houses as, yeah, rooms inside of us. And there's these different things, these different energies. And if you—it is. You can definitely look at it similar to a Tarot spread. And if you think of taking that one breath as you're born, it's a Tarot spread that holds the entire focus of your life.

Laylla: I love that.

Chelle: But I have a question. So with Tarot, you know, I kind of look at Tarot as, this is where you're at and the path you're on right at the moment of the spread, and you could take a left turn in 20 minutes and it could all change. But this kind of more sounds like, like the old saying, "it's written in the stars." Are you just destined to live out what all of this says, or is there—

Laylla: Are you asking the free will or fate question?

Chelle: I guess so. Are you locked in? Are you locked in to this?

Laurie: No, you're not. You're not. I mean, in some ways, yes, your natal chart, your birth chart is your chart. It is your job to work with that. However, from that moment you breathe in that first moment, the planets are set in their pattern. But from that moment on, the planets keep moving. And as they move, they interact with your chart.

Chelle: Okay.

Laurie: So you have opportunities all throughout your life to work with these deep inner parts of yourself. The parts are still the parts. But when a planet comes along and says, "Okay, it's time right now, this year, in the year 2025, you have an opportunity to explore," whatever, "your moon, your emotional nature," then you have choices on how you work with that.

Chelle: Okay.

Laurie: And that changes the trajectories.

Chelle: That makes sense to me.

Laurie: Yeah, the whole fate and free will conversation is fascinating because I think that there's an element of fate because we're born at this moment. We have chosen, I think, we've chosen this moment to come in. We've chosen these lessons to take on. How we respond when we're called upon to act on them—

Laylla: Is up to us.

Laurie: Is up to us.

Chelle: Okay, that makes so much more sense to me.

Laurie: One of the things that my friend Jenny Dee and I have started doing, we've got a YouTube channel.

Laylla: I've seen it. I love it, by the way. Charts make so much more sense watching you guys break down different people's charts and talk about things, and it's very good.

Laurie: We just started the series of the famous people, and we did we did Donald Trump, we did Cory Booker right after he did his 25-hour thing.

Laylla: Yes.

Laurie: AOC recently. And who should we do next? Oh, gosh. Because we're making a few more this week. We haven't decided on who yet.

Laylla: Bernie Sanders.

Laurie: Can't find a birth time for him. And I know him because I lived in Burlington. I was there when he became mayor of Burlington in 1981. I've known Bernie since 1981. And I actually asked his wife a couple of years ago if she would give me his birth time, and she wouldn't. She wouldn't give it to me.

Laylla: That's actually going to bring up a very good question. I have a confession. I don't know my birth time. I have a guess that was given to me, but my mother confessed that she made it up. So I'm in the process of getting my long-form birth certificate. But I don't have it yet. How does that impact people's chart?

Chelle: Totally.

Laylla: And what should I do?

Laurie: Well, the time of birth is crucial for really deep work. There are ways you can work with a chart without a birth time. You lose certain things. There's still a lot of information. There's still a lot of information. What you do if you don't have a birth time is you just create the chart at the moment the sun is rising on that day. And that's called a sunrise chart. You know, you lose things.

Laylla: Yeah, you lose the fine details.

Laurie: Right. And, you know, if you were born in this country, by law, the time is on the original long form. However, if you just contact the, whatever, Department of Vital Statistics and just say, "I want a copy of my birth certificate," what they actually will send you is a registration of birth, not the long form.

Laylla: That's exactly what I ran into, is I have official copies of my birth certificate, but they are not the long form.

Laurie: Right. Right.

Laylla: So they do not have the time.

Laurie: You have to really contact a human being that you can talk to and not just order it online, and be really clear you want the long form, the original that has the time on it. And I, you know, I've talked to some people that just somehow get dumb lucky and get a hold of somebody that says, "Oh, I'll check it," and just gives them the time.

Laylla: I was hoping for that when I called the office, but no. Thankfully, it's only a couple hours away from me here, and I have family and a good reason to go there. So I'm lucky enough I can go get it. I just don't have it now.

Chelle: I have the opposite. My mother was a pack rat, and back in the '70s, in the town I was born in, they actually put your time on your original birth certificate. And my sweet pack ratty mother has never, you know, never lost our birth certificates. We—so I actually, um, now have my original that was issued to my parents at my birth, and it has the time on it. So I didn't even have to get like the whole long-form process. It just happened to be on the original because that's what they did in my town back in the '70s.

Laylla: Fun little factoid, the time that I was given as my birth, which, again, was admittedly made up, was 7:41 a.m. Chelle, what time were you born?

Chelle: I was born at 7:41 p.m.

Laurie: Isn't that funny?

Laylla: And we didn't know that.

Laurie: Your two charts were really interesting. I There's just so many links.

Chelle: I'm not surprised.

Laurie: Oh my goodness. Yeah, it's like, oh, that's interesting. No wonder they do a podcast. They love to talk to each other a lot.

Chelle: That's true.

Laurie: There's a lot that you have to say.

Chelle: Yes, actually, that has been That has been true our whole friendship. We do talk a lot. That's very true.

Laurie: Yeah, I'm not surprised. One other place that's really almost always you can trust to be really accurate with the time is for parents that keep baby books. People are very specific when they fill in that baby book. So, if you can't find a birth certificate easily, look for a baby book.

Chelle: I didn't even think of that, but you're right, cuz I remember when both of my kids were born, and I know I've meticulously documented that in several different locations, including a baby book.

Laurie: Yeah. I love that you brought up children. Children's charts and mother's charts are so amazing to work with together. We think we know our children, but boy, it's really amazing to get the perspective of who our children are. It helps us to raise them so much. So, we don't, you know, we think we know. We don't.

Chelle: I've always laughed because, like I said, I'm a Gemini, and my daughter is one of those people that was born on a day that they call a cusp. So, my daughter's a Libra, a Libra-Scorpio on the cusp. And she is just like her Gemini mother because of that. It is very interesting.

Laurie: The cusp is an interesting thing because the cusp is kind of shorthand for we really don't know.

Chelle: I was going to say, explain what a cusp actually means for people. Wouldn't the time of your birth allow you to decide which one it is?

Laurie: Yes, absolutely. The thing The whole cusp idea is because, you know, most people don't, especially back back in time, people don't know exactly the moment the sun moves. You know, it's not like, oh, the book says the sun is in this sign from this day to that day, and exactly at midnight, the sun go It, you know, obviously, the sun in its movement through the signs doesn't go by midnight.

Chelle: It could be at 2:42 p.m.

Laurie: Exactly. And if you're born before that 2:42, you're one sign. If you're born after that 2:42, you're the other sign.

Chelle: So, you're not necessarily both signs, then. That's a myth. Okay.

Laurie: And one of the reasons people, you know, I hear people so much, it's like, I know I'm on the cusp because I can feel both signs so clear in me. Well, that's probably because there's some other planet in that other sign. You know, the Sun, Mercury, and Venus never move very far away from each other. Because they are between us and the Sun, when we look at from our perspective, they're always close to the Sun. They never are opposite the Sun. They're always close to it. So, if you think you're on the cusp between Scorpio and Libra, well, you probably have Mercury in one and the Sun in the other, or, you know, Venus. My sister, I grew up I was the youngest of five kids. I think one of the reasons I was so obsessed with astrology was trying to understand this crazy, dysfunctional, huge family and trying to make sense of the people I lived with. And I had one sister who all the books told me she was a Libra. I thought she was a Libra, and somewhere in my 30s, I finally like ran an actual copy of her chart and found out she was a Scorpio. It's like, oh, no wonder. She made so much more sense. Like, no wonder. She never was a Libra. So.

Chelle: Interesting.

Laurie: Yeah, the cusp thing is always interesting.

Laylla: I've found that people who feel like they don't identify with their sun sign often do with like a rising or maybe their moon. Does that have something to do with how their personality expresses themselves? Because you mentioned like sun is who you are, rising is how you present yourself, and moon is your inner self, like your emotions, roughly?

Laurie: Roughly, yes.

Laylla: So, could it be that they maybe identify with that another side of themselves more strongly?

Laurie: Yes. There's a lot of things that can factor. You know, there's the time of day you're born. People born at night, the sun is below the surface, and it's not as outwardly expressed.

Laylla: Makes sense.

Laurie: People born the daytime, it's more outwardly expressed. It's like Jenny and I that do the YouTube videos together. We've known and worked with each other for so many years. We both are sun sign Leo. But she's a night Leo, and I'm a day Leo. And we kind of, you know, laugh about that a lot. I'm a lot more out in the world, and she's a lot more internal. And, you know, we're both Leos. But if you met us, I probably show up more Leo than she does.

Laylla: I see. I see.

Chelle: Interesting.

Laylla: Since I'm a like an Aquarius sun and an Aquarius rising, and I think I've got a couple more Aquariuses in there, does that explain why I am so much an Aquarius?

Laurie: Probably. I do remember you had a lot of Aquarius. Do you remember if your Merc Is your Mercury in Aquarius?

Laylla: It is. I think when you look when we were looking at mine at one point, I think my moon is Aquarius.

Laurie: Yeah, I think you both had a bunch of Aquarius.

Laylla: Yeah, makes sense. My other child, ironically enough, is an Aquarius. It's all over my chart.

Laurie: Oh, okay. So, one of you is moon in Aquarius.

Chelle: That's me.

Laurie: Chelle. Okay. Moon in Aquarius, and Laylla has sun and Mercury and ascendant in Aquarius. Oh, well, we don't really know because you don't have your birth time.

Laylla: Not 100% sure.

Laurie: So, we don't know your birth time, but you've got Mercury Mercury in Aquarius is one of my favorite things to see.

Laylla: What does that mean?

Laurie: Well, Mercury's your mind, your thought processes, how you think, what you think about, you know, how your mind works. And Aquarius is Yes, we are. Aquarius is the sign of genius. And not in terms of the highest IQ going, but the ability for the mind to go places that nobody taught it to go.

Laylla: Ah, so that's why I was a bookworm, always go down rabbit holes.

Laurie: Wild rabbit holes. Wild rabbit holes.

Chelle: That makes sense for my son as well, absolutely.

Laurie: Aquarius is all about innovation. It's the ability to see into the future, the ability to go into the future. I had my son, who's 35 years old now, his Mercury was in Aquarius, and always think about him. I might have even written about it in the book. But when he was like seven years old, he had this huge piece of poster board, and he was drawing all these intricate little symbols, and like, what are you doing? And he said, I'm solving the problem, the um How did he say it? I'm solving the transportation problems of humanity with magnet theory.

Chelle: I love that.

Laurie: You know, where do you get these ideas? And, you know, he just his his mind, and I see people with Mercury in Aquarius sometimes can lose other people. You know, like you're talking, talking, talking, people are following you, and all of a sudden, it's like, where'd she go?

Laylla: Oh, yeah.

Laurie: Cuz your thoughts just went somewhere.

Chelle: Yeah.

Laurie: And with your, Chelle, your moon in Aquarius, emotionally, you can follow her thinking. You might not necessarily be intellectually be following her thinking, but emotionally, you can totally keep up.

Chelle: I'm totally in it. I'm in it to win it with her.

Laylla: She is, 100%.

Laurie: Chelle's Mercury is in Gemini.

Chelle: So, what does that mean if I have that in Gemini and I am a Gemini? Like, I feel like we're the most discriminated like group of people. People think that we are like Well, you like to gather information.

Chelle: I do.

Laurie: You're going to follow her thinking because you're just gathering information, get You know, they're both air signs, so they're both intellectual signs. Gemini is and Aquarius are both air signs, both intellectual signs. And the difference is that the Aquarius is innovating, going to the future, and the Gemini is just gathering the information. Just gather, gather, gather, gather, and then figure out what to do with it later.

Laylla: That must be why we keep making you the scribe.

Chelle: He does all the work, and I compile it all.

Laylla: See, there you go. Yeah. We're a great team is what you're saying.

Laurie: You are a great team. That was the first thing I thought when I looked at the two charts. It's like, oh, they know how to work together on that level.

Laylla: Bingo. That's always been true.

Laurie: Yeah, there's a a million things there.

Chelle: Well, what do you What is your response to, you know, the last 10 or 15 years, we've kind of Is Pluto a planet? Is it not a planet? Are we going to keep it? Are we not Do you count Pluto, and definitely, or what do you say about the people who leave it off the chart because it doesn't count as a planet anymore?

Laurie: Anyone who does who leaves it off the cha off the chart because it doesn't count as a planet anymore, I don't know where I don't That's the right answer. Thank you. Okay. There are There are people who do like traditional traditional Western astrology that only use the planets Sun through Saturn because that's what it was based on before we found these other outer planets.

Chelle: Right.

Laurie: Pluto's a planet, definitely. It's one of the outer planets. It has more to do with, you know, it's a generational planet. It has more to do with the outer bigger picture. But no, Pluto's a planet. Pluto's the planet of power.

Laylla: I'm team Pluto planet as well.

Laurie: Oh, yeah. Absolutely. Absolutely. When they started saying Pluto wasn't a planet, it's like, what the heck? It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter what they say.

Laylla: I agree. It's what's working, and it's been working, so we're not going to let it go.

Laurie: Right.

Laylla: I was looking through your book. It's very workbooky, and it's right next to me because I feel like I want to explore my whole thought process of doing these readings by looking at the charts, and I'm really intrigued by it. But other than journaling that type of progress, that type of learning progress, is there something that I or our listeners could do on a daily or weekly, you know, some type of regular basis where they can get in touch with with the energies of their stars? What can they do beyond looking at the grocery store horoscope section?

Laurie: Yeah. Make an appointment. Book with your chart. You know, get some understanding, some real understanding. Talk to a real professional astrologer. I I think that, you know, aside from studying for a long, long time, that's the place to start, really. I I do a lot of mentorships with people as well. I do consultations. I consult with people all over the world around their natal chart, around what's going on in current time impacting them. And also, the piece that I love to do more than anything right now is helping people understand themselves and the people they love. Through this perspective, not necessarily, you know, everybody doesn't need to learn astrology to this great depth. But if you find an astrologer who is able to really help you understand the core of what the natal chart tells you and the the difference it can make in your relationships. You know, I have two different mentorship programs. One is for people that want to learn astrology, and one is for people who want to learn about themselves and the people they love. And that's what I love to do more than anything is help introduce you to your children, to your mother, to your, you know, whoever. When when I, you know, I have this process that I go through, and I go 1, 2, 3, you know, I basically the the guideposts in the book. I do that process with a chart, and it I get to a point where I feel the person. And I I know them in this very intimate place. And at one time, I was probably in my 30s, I picked up my mother's chart, and I did the process. And when I got that feeling, I was like, who the hell's that? That's not my mother. And I went from there to interviewing all my siblings about who they thought their mother was. And it was as though we each had a different mother because we all see people from our filters.

Laylla: Right, right.

Laurie: And that taught me so much about, you know, how little we know the people in our lives. And if I can help introduce people to the people they love and help them understand who they're really working with, it's a very powerful gift.

Laylla: I love that. That's beautiful. And that that is a fantastic way to bring this in into personal life. And and even just on a more superficial level, I mean, you can do that in such a deep way. But, I mean, Chelle and I have had lots of conversations just talking about her being a Gemini and me being an Aquarius and what that means about our relationship. And just in kind of a fun way, but I understand her better after having those conversations.

Laurie: Yeah.

Laylla: And when you meet someone and and they tell you what their sun sign is, almost everybody's excited to tell you what their sign is. And if you know just a little bit about that, they're basically trying to share a part of themselves with you. They're trying to say, this is who I am that you might not see right away. But, I'm such an Aquarius, and you can get an idea of what they're like from that. And so, I think that even if you don't want to or if the math is scary or it's not interesting to you, if you're just interested in just a few of those little parts, that can really help you find so many connections with people, whether it's people in your family that you can learn another side of, like you did with your mother, you learned many different pieces of her, or someone that you just met at a party, it can be a way to get to know them and kind of talk to them and and find that connection.

Laurie: Yeah, and if you want to go the next step after the sun is the moon. You know, because the moon is our emotional nature. And, you know, if you meet somebody and you can't make any sense of their emotional nature, it's, you know, you want to understand that. I mean, between the two of you, that's the one piece that's a little oddly off.

Laylla: Is our moons?

Laurie: Your moons, yeah. Because Chelle's moon is in Aquarius, so it's that intellectual like there's a way in which the emotional nature is kind of cool. It's cool. There's a little bit of detachment there. And then Laylla's moon is in Virgo. That's very different. Virgo is really service-oriented. It's very grounded. So, you know, one of you is very grounded emotionally, and one of you is very intellectual emotionally. That's where things might like not always feel totally aligned.

Chelle: Interesting. That gives us our flavor, I guess. That's right.

Laurie: You know, I mean, we all No relationship is going to have every piece that works, right? There's always going to be something that And that's what makes us curious about each other, I think.

Laylla: You know, I think that my Virgo self, which is very different than the than the Aquarius nature, kind of helps keep me a little grounded. And I think that helps me connect a little more with Chelle sometimes because she can be very good about the lists and the note-taking and taking care of things. And I relate my Virgo side relates to that very well. Whereas her Aquarius moon allows her to let go a little bit of that and be a little more wild and a little more, you know, emotional and out there with me, I think. So, maybe that kind of helps us in different areas.

Laurie: I love Virgo. It's a good sign that has a bad reputation.

Laylla: I know nothing about that.

Chelle: Something came up in my in in when I had done like the free chart thing. What is a node, and what does that mean to me? Cuz I don't know what that is.

Laurie: That's a big conversation. That's a big conversation. The nodal axis kind of tells us the the soul's purpose.

Laylla: Okay. Okay. So, that's a different podcast. We'll have you back. We'll talk about soul purposes in the future.

Laurie: Absolutely. There's so many things. There's so many ways to look at these things. And, you know, we can find ways to look at however you want to look at it, whether you want to look at it as past lives or ancestral lives and how they impact us. You know, there's just there's so much available.

Chelle: So, really, astrology is like one big onion, and you can just keep peeling back those layers further and further however deep you want to go.

Laurie: Yeah. It's just like so many things. You know, like what you guys do with really going in and understanding these levels of witchiness and witchcraft. And, I mean, there's no end to those layers.

Laylla: Right. That's a good point. Good point.

Laurie: And that's, you know, I said that to someone recently. I said, you know, one of the things that I love the most about astrology is I can study this every day of my life from the time I was seven years old until however long I live, and I never will get bored or never come to an end. And that person I was talking to looked at me and said, well, isn't that the same with everything? And I started thinking, actually, anything that's worth putting our passion into is going to open up those layers and layers.

Chelle: Do you still feel like you learn new things about astrology after all this time?

Laurie: Yes. I still feel like I learn new things about my own chart.

Chelle: Oh.

Laurie: Yeah, that onion just keeps getting deeper.

Laylla: Those planets keep moving. They don't stay still.

Laurie: That's right. They don't stay still. And as they move, they change, and they change our perspective on our own internal processes. You know, most people I work with, I see at least every six months. And over time, there's really an ability to track the cycles and see what's being opened at this period of time and what's being shown to us at this period of time.

Laylla: So, what you're saying is it's important to journal those readings and keep track of them. Is that what I'm hearing here?

Laurie: Are you a journaler?

Laylla: Yes, I am.

Laurie: That's that Virgo piece. I love that.

Chelle: I do have I do have one last question. Is all the hype about Mercury going retrograde really all that they make it out to be, or is it just an internet scare tactic? Cuz I go to work, and even non-witchy, non-pagan, non-astrology type people are like, oh, you heard Mercury's retrograde, right? Everything is going to shit. Like, is that really the case?

Laurie: Here's the thing. I love Mercury retrograde. I love it. I love it. When I know Mercury's turning retrograde, I get very excited. You have to learn to work with it. You know, there's a lot of things about astrology that people throw out for clickbait, for scare tactics. There's so much of that, and it's very frustrating to see it. But what I think, and I've really worked with Mercury retrograde for many years, and how I tell people to work with it is when you know Mercury's getting ready to go retrograde, if you're paying attention, you want to know a couple weeks ahead of time. And you want to sit down, and you want to make a list of every single thing in your life that has been left undone, that you've started but not finished. And we know there's a million of those things, right? Projects that we've started, things that we started, haven't gotten to. Make a list of those things. For the three weeks that Mercury is retrograde, don't do anything new. Stick to that list. Go back and clean up the things on that list. That Mercury retrograde period of time will be the most powerful time to get stuff done.

Laylla: That's great advice. I love that.

Chelle: I love that.

Laurie: It works so well. I get so much done when Mercury is retrograde. I don't start anything new, but I get a lot done.

Chelle: That almost makes me look forward to Mercury going retrograde. I'm going to make a list.

Laurie: Yeah, do it. Do it. Make sure you pay attention. When people get scared of it, it's just like, yeah, no.

Chelle: I I figured it was turning into, like you said, one of those clickbait scare tactic things, cuz it seems that it's almost like they're trying to create mass panic every time it happens.

Laurie: Absolutely. And it's like, come on, it happens three times a year, every year. We've got to get used to it.

Laylla: In the meantime, while you're waiting for the next Mercury retrograde, start something new. Check out this book, How to Read and Interpret a Birth Chart. Get a little deeper into your own birth chart. And I'm telling you, as someone who's not very good at this stuff, just looking at my birth chart that I generated online and then going through this book helped me understand it, both the book and my chart, so much better. So much information.

Chelle: It has intrigued me enough to make me dig a little deeper without too much math fight.

Laurie: Yeah, don't be scared of the math. It's really not a big deal.

Laylla: And this is a lot of fun. I'm finding a lot of fun in this that I did not expect. So again, thank you for that as well, Laurie. And thank you so much for coming on the show. We really appreciate it.

Laurie: It's been really fun talking to both of you. Absolutely.

Chelle: Now, tell tell our folks where we can find you on online.

Laurie: Well, uh, lauriefarrington.com. You can find me there. Um, at this point, I do almost nothing on, uh, you know, Facebook or Instagram anymore. I'm doing a lot on Substack. I'm really building a Substack and on YouTube. How you would find me on YouTube is probably Astropath and then my name or, uh, or go to my website and find me through there. But, uh, yeah, I'm really working on building that YouTube channel. And Jenny and I do a video every month for the full moon, and we do one for each season. Like, we just, I think today, we just put out the one for Taurus season, which is upcoming, and then we're starting the series of people in the news.

Chelle: Nice. Nice. My beloved is a Taurus, so I will definitely be checking that one out.

Laurie: Oh, is mine. Nice. They're stubborn Tauruses.

Chelle: They're lovely partners. Absolutely lovely. But I will put links to all of that in the show notes in the show description so people can click them right there and and check you out. Maybe book a session with you, find out more about their stars and their future. That first breath of life, I love that analogy. That's gorgeous. Thank you so much for joining us here.

Laurie: Thank you.

Laylla: Thank you. We're going to have you back to talk about soul purposes because I need an episode on that now. That's intriguing.

Laurie: Absolutely. Thank you both so much. It's been great to meet you both.

Laylla: Thank you so much for listening to this episode of Back on the Broomstick, and thank you to Laurie Farrington for joining us. We really appreciate your time and had a ton of fun talking about our stars.

Chelle: I learned a lot, actually, and maybe I'm not as scared about astrology as I've been. I mean, I'm not saying I'm turning into an astrologer by any stretch, but I'm not as scared of it as I've been.

Laylla: Yeah, I understand it a lot more now that I've gone through the books. I was surprised. At first, I was intimidated, and then it turned into a lot of fun.

Chelle: Exactly. So again, thank you all so much for listening. Please like, subscribe, give us a review. We really appreciate it. If you want to send us an email, some snail mail, check out the show description. There's information there on how to get in touch with us off air. And in the meantime, be wise, be wicked.

Laylla: And keep it witchy, folks.
