Laylla: Welcome to Back on the Broomstick, a modern witches' spoken word grimoire, where two witchy friends from way back are reconnecting to their pagan roots after a long period of mundanity. We're rewalking the path of the wise and trying out all the latest spells, rituals, and magical theory in today's witchcraft and pagan practices. So grab your wand and your incense, your cauldron and your crystals, and join us as we get back on the broomstick.

Laylla: Hi, and welcome to Back on the Broomstick. I'm Laylla, and for this episode, we've opened up the solarium to talk about our favorite herbs for a summer of spellcrafting. These just aren't your basic tea herbs. Oh, no. We're going to tell you how to incorporate these into your practice for smokable, sippable, herbalicious spells. So grab your mortar and pestle, your favorite smoking apparatus, and a teacup, and join us on this magical herbal episode.

Chelle: I'm Chelle, and Laylla's making it awfully fancy because I'm going the route of, we know that I have a penance for killing things, so we're going to talk about some herbs that I like that I can actually grow and keep alive. So, hey, let's do this. Super excited to talk about herbs.

Laylla: Me too. Beltane was just a few weeks ago, and summer is very quickly ramping up here in the Northeast of the USA, and it feels to me like this is going to be the summer of some serious spellcasting. So we decided to grab what we think will be the five most used herbs for spellcasting in the summer of 2025. Chelle decided to go with herbs that she can grow, which, you know, if she can grow them, you know they're pretty resilient. And I decided to focus on herbs that were useful not just in incense, but also in sippable and smokable spells.

Chelle: Well, you know, I kind of look at my five herbs as a try it, too. I have a history of of growing/keeping things alive and

Laylla: You mean not growing and not keeping things alive?

Chelle: Exactly. But but I'm going to talk about some things tonight that I actually, me of all people, can grow from seed all the way to plucking it for magical purposes. And for me, that's like amazing.

Laylla: Things that you can grow, things that you can harvest yourself, definitely have a strong connection and can be a very strong ally in spellcraft. However, you can also buy herbs off the grocery store shelves, or you can buy herbs that someone else grew or someone else dried, and they will work for you beautifully in your spellcraft as well. So, I have picked five herbs, and it was difficult. I had a hard time narrowing it down because there's so many that I like, especially when you start talking about smokable spells. But I picked five that I think are very summery and would be very useful in what I think are like witchy summer-type spells.

Chelle: Well, conveniently enough for me, I, for the past couple of years, have been growing five or six. So, I'm going to talk about the five or six that I actually have physically grown myself, kept alive. When I originally started these, um, because some of them I've been growing year after year now, I picked seeds that I knew that I would end up using for magical purposes, if that makes sense. You know, like I didn't go and like plant lettuce. I should, but I did not. I went with the idea of let me grow this so that I can then use it for magical purposes, ritualistic purposes, that type of thing. Um, so that was really my intent seed buying.

Laylla: I like having a magical garden and a kitchen garden, if I'm able to. Not always able to. So sometimes I'll just have herbs that do dual duty, like rosemary or culinary sage or things like that, things that I can use in cooking and in magic.

Chelle: I grow a couple that I use either dried for incense or have put in teas. So, yeah, multipurpose.

Laylla: So the first herb on my list that I'm going to talk about is one of my favorites, and it's actually invasive, so I'm not even allowed to order seeds if I wanted to try and grow it here. And I know so many people who can find it growing in the ditch or growing in their back field or something, and I have not yet been lucky enough to find a reliable stash of it. But, uh, the first herb on my list is mugwort.

Chelle: That's invasive?

Laylla: It is. It's actually in in uh Northeast, in New York State and Pennsylvania. I'm not sure where else, but I know those two states it's considered invasive, and you can't even order seeds for it.

Chelle: It makes me sneeze. I'm not going to lie.

Laylla: It's absolutely my favorite because it's fabulous to have in smokable spells. It's wonderful. Well, okay, it's not exactly wonderful in tea, but the effects of it in tea are great. And it's also really good in incenses and magical workings. It's an herb that's associated with the moon, possibly because the looks kind of silvery, like the underside of the leaves kind of have like that silvery green look to it. Um, so that might be part of it. But it's a it's a very deeply feminine herb, I think, and it has a lot to do with dreaming and with dream work, with liminal spaces. It can help you with your psychic abilities. It can enhance clairvoyance, clairaudience, working with ancestors and with spirits. It's also excellent for banishing negative energies and for psychic protection. It's just a really great witches' herb.

Chelle: Now, Laylla and I are by no means giving any sort of medical advice on any level, so please don't ever take it as that. But I have a problem with mugwort. This is why I don't use it very often in any sort of spellwork, um, and and in something people might might want to take note of. I am actually allergic to mugwort, and when I smell it, breathe it, am near it, touch it, anything in my vicinity, I can't breathe, and I start sneezing my brains out. And and like there has been times when I've used it going into it knowing that I'm going to have a sneeze-a-thon. But overall, I do try to avoid it just for the sole fact that it is something that if you're allergic to like everything outside, mugwort might not be a good thing for you to be to be utilizing. But again, by no means am I a doctor, just telling you my personal experience.

Laylla: That's actually a very good point. So we're going to put in our standard disclaimer here. Chelle and I are fabulous witches. We are not very good doctors. So, any herbs, anything that you're going to smoke, make into a tea, ingest in any way, you need to figure that out with your doctor. Do your research, do all the things. That's right. We're only here to tell you the witchy aspect.

Chelle: But I I see its purposes, and it it is very good. I just personally am not a fan because it triggers me not being able to breathe out of my nose.

Laylla: As long as you're not allergic to mugwort, this is one of those things that I really love to make into smoke bundles. I like to dry it and make a smoke bundle. This makes fabulous cleansing bundles. If you're going to be doing a ritual or spellwork, this opens up that liminal space. This is going to connect you with your psychic abilities. It's going to enhance your intuition, your clairvoyance, your inner sight. So, you can use this in a smoke bundle. You can grind it up and add it to a smokable spell. You can put it in your tea. In a smokable, it's a very full-bodied smoke, so it's you can use that as the main ingredient, although a little bit goes a long way. And it has a very pleasant taste. However, in tea, sometimes it it has a little bit more of a

Chelle: Earthy.

Laylla: Yeah, musty. Yeah, it's not the greatest in tea. Again, a little bit goes a long way. But if you use it especially before you go to sleep, before you do any type of meditation or dream work, mugwort is fabulous for prophetic dreams, for clairvoyance.

Chelle: Yeah, I've actually used it in the past, the few times I have used it. I have blended it into a loose incense mixture, and it's great for like ritual incense because it kind of takes what you've got and makes that super smoky. I don't know, mugwort, I think is just super smoky.

Laylla: Yeah.

Chelle: But like I said, I tend to stay away from it, but I I have used it as like a base for loose incense.

Laylla: Some people consider it to be a feminine herb and associated with the goddess Artemis in particular. Other people associate it as with the crone aspect of the goddess. It's more the dark side of the goddess. This is when you want to go within, and it can also be an ally for you if you're trying to maybe confront your dark side, if you're doing shadow work, if you have things that are difficult that you need to see through, mugwort can help you with that as well. So, if you don't want to ingest it, you can use it in an incense, you can use it in a smoke stick, you can put it in a dream pillow, but it's a fantastic herb for that, and I think summer's are very good time for dreaming and dreaming of the future, so that's why I put it in there.

Chelle: Now, you mentioned invasive, so we're going to talk about my first herb here that is a tad invasive. Basically, once you grow it, it is like, I don't even know what, like like a weed that just

Laylla: I think I know already what you're going to say.

Chelle: So, my my first one is going to be mint.

Laylla: Peppermint's on my list, too.

Chelle: You know, about five years ago, I grew my first mint plant, and, you know, at the end of the season, I didn't know. I am like the last person who should really be planting anything. So at the end of the season, I didn't know. It kind of looked like it was dried up and withered, so I dumped the pot in like a mulch pile.

Laylla: Oh, no.

Chelle: So you know, the next year I could put new dirt in, plant something new, you know. Well, who knew? There's a little street in between my house and this mulch pile across the way. Let me just say that five years on, shit ton of mint over there. But did I learn my lesson? No. So, I had a friend who was like, "Hey, do you want to grow some mint?" And I'm like, "Yeah, you know, I think I threw mine away. You know, that was pretty shitty." So I took these cuttings. Who would give me cuttings? Like I know what I'm doing, first of all, but somehow

Laylla: Oh, it's mint. It's going to be fine.

Chelle: Well, this is this is why mint's worked out for me. Let's talk about resiliency here, folks. So, I just take these two whatever cuttings, shove them in some dirt because, you know, I don't know any better. That shit has grown for the last three years. This year, I thought, again, that it was dead, and I was going to dump it out, and I put another pot in that pot because I was going to dump them both out. Literally, that mint has grown around it, and it is like, "You ain't killing me, woman, no matter how hard you try." I think mint works for me because of the resiliency. So if you do not have a green thumb, mint is one of the things you need to do.

Laylla: And definitely keep it in a pot. Don't grow it in the ground, or it will take over.

Chelle: Seriously, like I have more mint across the street than I need to. But there's a lot of different uses for it. I've been kind of trying to get away from sage, uh, which I'll talk about in a minute, as far as like a cleansing thing. So mint can be used for cleansing or protection, the same as, you know, sage could be.

Laylla: Or mugwort, unless you're allergic to it like Chelle.

Chelle: Or mugwort, yep. I have actually, I was making, I think this was last summer, uh, when I had mint. I was making mint and sage bundles, which, can I just say, smelled amazing. We won't talk about the fact that I'm not sure if I'm growing peppermint or spearmint. We're just going to leave it at mint and move on. But prosperity.

Laylla: I love mint for prosperity. Yeah.

Chelle: I mean, how bet- how how much better can you get than cleansing, protection, and prosperity? What else is there? Also, amplifying your intentions. You know, everything is about intentions. We want to always put intentions into all of our spells and rituals, and this kind of will amplify that for you. I'm not as big on the smokables as you are, so generally I am doing, like I said, in the la- last summer I kind of got into making bundles, but loose incense in the teas. And on a nice hot day, mint tea, can't beat it.

Laylla: The cooling properties of mint relate a lot to communication. It relates that cooling sensation in your mouth or in your throat.

Chelle: It can also soothe other things, soothe tempers, soothe

Laylla: Exactly.

Chelle: Even soothe things within inside you, like anxiety.

Laylla: Yeah, but it also has that fiery activation. It's also very active. Like you said, it'll grow anywhere. It'll take over. So it's abundance as well. It has that strong energy of abundance.

Chelle: Prosperity.

Laylla: Yeah, prosperity. Mint feels like it burns, but then it has that cooling sensation, so you get the duality of both in mint.

Chelle: Hurts so good with mint.

Laylla: Yes, so peppermint's on my list as well for a lot of the same reasons.

Chelle: The resiliency was like, I was like, "Man, this plant is definitely for me because I can't kill it."

Laylla: Exactly, exactly. And because mint, when you eat it or you take it as a tea, or even if you smoke it, it's very nice in a smokable, also very cooling, has a nice flavor. No matter how you take it, if you smoke it, if you eat it, if you take it as a tea, mint can be very good for your stomach. So that can also help you ground. That can be a wonderful way to center and ground yourself is a little bit of mint tea. And again, with that fire and cooling aspect of it, it's good for balance and balancing yourself.

Chelle: And just like you were saying with the mugwort, um, you can also put it in like a sachet under your pillow or drink it as a tea to promote dreams or visions.

Laylla: Oh, I haven't heard that. I love that.

Chelle: I I like to call them sleep visions because I don't think it's, you know how sometimes you're like kind of awake and kind of asleep?

Laylla: Mhm. That alpha state.

Chelle: Yeah, like like a sleep vision. So you're not really like dreaming in a dead sleep. This can kind of promote that, as well as there are people that use this as part of love spells. I never have, but, you know, do what you got to do. Do what you got to do.

Laylla: I've heard that as well. Again, I think it goes back to the balance. It's the fiery bite and the cooling qualities both in one plant. So I think that can help you in a relationship to have balance and good things in a relationship. I've never used it for that, but again, you do you. Mostly for joy, happiness, abundance, success, those types of things.

Chelle: And I don't know why, but like I like it as a cleanser, and I think this is so ridiculous of me, but you know how I am with my my associations. Most toothpastes I use are mint flavored. So I think of mint sometimes as a cleanser.

Laylla: Yeah. No, I love that. That's perfect association.

Chelle: Like I said, I I sometimes try to get away from the sage thing as is uh or a cleanser or a spiritual cleanser, and mint is definitely been something that I've tested out, and I feel like sometimes when people use sage to cleanse, I don't want to say it like brings you down, but it almost like brings like this

Laylla: It's so earthy. It's so grounded.

Chelle: When you use mint as a cleanser, it more like brings you up and almost like brings like a level of excitement instead of a level of calm. Does that make sense?

Laylla: Yeah, absolutely. I love that. Now, before we move off of mint, lovely peppermint, I do have a story for you.

Chelle: Okay.

Laylla: So there is a Greek myth about mint and how it came to be.

Chelle: Do tell.

Laylla: And it has to do with our lovely goddess Persephone. So Persephone and Hades have been married for a while in this myth, and Hades, much like the other men in his family, is a horn dog.

Chelle: Well, you know.

Laylla: Dude can't keep it in his pants and is running around and finds this, by all accounts, absolutely stunning, gorgeous woman named Minthe. He snatches her up. They have a fling, and somehow Persephone finds out.

Chelle: Did she turn her into a plant to get rid of her?

Laylla: Yes, Persephone, a lot like her mother, is an agricultural goddess. And so she turned that cheating woman into a plant. She should have turned Hades into a plant, I mean, for real.

Chelle: You know, Greek mythology is kind of like the soap operas of the '80s. You can see the ending.

Laylla: Right? She turned Minthe into a plant. I'm not sure if that's how you pronounce it. It's spelled M-I-N-T-H-E. So I don't know if it's Minthe, Minthe, Mint. I don't know. So this water nymph was turned into a plant by Persephone, and Hades, who felt awful at his part in this whole thing, gave her the lovely fragrance and taste of mint.

Chelle: And he must have made her resilient because I can't kill mint for nothing.

Laylla: Not even Persephone wanted to kill her, just turned her into a plant. So there you go.

Chelle: Now, because because I've mentioned it a few times, I am going to usurp you and go right into my second one and and cut you off.

Laylla: Okay.

Chelle: Sage. Like, that was like the first thing I tried to grow.

Laylla: Now you're talking about culinary sage, right?

Chelle: Yeah, so so I planted this plant. I happen to have two pots now, but this first pot, I legit planted five years ago. I am not joking you. I will take a picture for you. It is still outside and regrowing. I, this is another one, I can't kill this. I am I have amazed myself. I left it out in the winter. I didn't clean the leaves out of it. Moss grew on the dirt. I have battered and bruised this sage probably more than any other plant, and it just it says, "Bitch, you ain't killing me." It's growing right back now. Like, again, I I like using it for bundles. I like using it for cleansing. I don't drink sage because it's to me has a weird taste.

Laylla: Not my favorite to smoke, either.

Chelle: It's weird to me.

Laylla: Yeah.

Chelle: But there are so many good uses for sage, and it just really started out as a can I grow this? I'm telling you, resilient plant number two. Can't kill it for the life of me.

Laylla: Culinary sage and white sage, that a lot of our listeners might be familiar with, are two very different things.

Chelle: Yep.

Laylla: They smell different when they're burned as an incense. This isn't one that we personally prefer to do in a sippable or a smokable. This is more used in a bundle or loose incense.

Chelle: Yeah, it just the taste is weird.

Laylla: And it's very grounding. It's very earthy. Culinary sage is more for, I would say, in my personal opinion, is more grounding, is more for when you need to tone the energy down, when you need to be settled and strong and standing strong. So, I guess in some ways it can be a cleansing herb in that way because you're bringing things back to basics, whereas white sage, that a lot of people are familiar with, that's going to be more of a actually clearing out the negative energy. It's also uplifting, and it has a lot of spiritual significance for some Native people. So it cleanses in two different ways, I would say.

Chelle: But, different episode. Totally different between culinary sage and white sage.

Laylla: Yeah, but definitely a good one to grow and to have for that grounding and that earthing aspect.

Chelle: But I I sometimes think, and also it depends on what I bundle it with, kind of a digging for deeper wisdom. I don't know why this particular breed of sage makes me think that.

Laylla: It's like a grandmother herb. I love it.

Chelle: That's the only way I can explain it, digging for deeper wisdom, and it kind of like leads you down that path, I think. And again, sometimes it depends on what what I mix it with. But I think that everybody, if you're going to grow a little herb garden, get the sage from the Home Depot. It It should be a staple in your in your herb garden.

Chelle: Yeah, and I I really like to add it to bundles because it does add that good, strong, solid base earth element.

Laylla: I like how you just said that. It's It's a good base for bundles, and it's a good base for loose incense.

Chelle: And it's an excellent base for doing deep meditative or deep ritual and spell work.

Laylla: And again, Chelle can't kill this one, either.

Chelle: Fantastic. All right. So, my third herb, I picked one that is very summery and very fun. It's a tropical herb, so maybe that's why, you know, kind of gives me that summer vibe, but also its magical and physical properties, they kind of give you that summer feeling. Adventure, positive energy. It's about summer romance and loving yourself. It's, you know, it's that bright, sunny, happy, you know, it's all those wonderful, luscious, sensual feelings of summertime.

Laylla: Whimsical, dreamy, fantasy.

Chelle: So, this herb is damiana.

Laylla: Ooh. Why did I all of a sudden get Practical Magic vibes?

Chelle: That's the belladonna is in the bag. And yes, we have belladonna, not on this episode.

Laylla: Damiana, though, you got to be careful with that.

Chelle: Mhm. Everything, all of these, even the peppermint, please be careful with all of it, people. But yes, do your research. Talk to your herbalist. Talk to your doctor. Talk to your pagan minister. I don't know. But before you do any of these, you can always use it in an incense and not have to worry too much about it. You can use it in a smoke stick, whatever you want.

Laylla: When in doubt, just burn it.

Chelle: And don't inhale. Right? But for me, I'm going to inhale because I really do

Laylla: Okay, I've never smoked this. What What is What's the taste like?

Chelle: Damiana in smokables taste kind of like a floral, grassy, a bit sweet. To me, it smokes and tastes like a like an herby cannabis. It's nice.

Laylla: Ooh.

Chelle: This plant is sun-loving. It's beautiful yellow flowers. You can smoke the leaves and the flowers, by the way.

Laylla: Now, do you just smoke this itself or in a mixture?

Chelle: I smoke it almost always in a mixture, but it can be smoked on its own. It's very cannabis-like as a smoke. So, it can act as a base herb in a mixture. Mugwort and damiana, whew. All right. So, damiana is passion. This is love, self-love, romantic love, sensuality. Burn it in an incense, have it in tea, have it in your smokable. Definitely all about fire and sun. Be bold.

Laylla: In ancient times, it was used as an aphrodisiac.

Chelle: Oh, yes. We know that the Aztecs and the Mayans drank damiana tea as an aphrodisiac and for love spells. But I mostly smoke it more for its relaxation and and kind of mellow, feel-good qualities. Now, it can taste bitter if you steep it too long. So, again, a little goes a long way. Just steep it for a short period of time.

Laylla: Yeah, that's the same with a lot of teas. Yeah.

Chelle: So, um, you can also take it as a tincture, you can take it as a capsule. If it's too high of a dose, use caution because it can be a little bit of a hallucinogenic. But when you smoke it, it helps you to be relaxed, a little euphoric. You can kind of feel a little sensual, a little happy.

Laylla: I was going to say, the one thing I remember about damiana, it is the It's nature's version of the little blue pill, if you know.

Chelle: There you go. So, this is going to be for um love potions, self-love, if you want to do glamour spells, if you want to do a little romance ritual, damiana's going to be your go-to. Make that a big part of your incense or part of your smokable. Again, you're going to want to blend it with other things in your smokable or in your tea, but you're going to be, you know, happy with that. Awaken that energy, awaken that sensuality.

Laylla: And as Laylla and Chelle always say, do not do love magic or or sex magic on people without their permission.

Chelle: There you go. And don't take damiana unless you know what you're doing. Um, but yeah, go ahead, use it as an incense. It's It's just fabulous herb for love. So, it really reminds me of summer. You know, I think about summer romances and doing things with my love in the summertime. So, damiana should be a staple for any type of love magic in the summer.

Laylla: Anything with flowers with me is just automatic a a summer thing.

Chelle: Now, because it can also be like a euphoric and a hallucinogenic, this can also help you get in touch with your psychic senses. It's a little bit of a liminal herb. So, yes, it's love and lust and sensuality, but if you're doing it in a meditative space, it can also be meditations, very deep meditations on self-love, deep meditations to heal yourself or to find that love within yourself if you don't have it. So, you can use it in a lot of dreamwalking, very uh psychic ways.

Laylla: Consult your doctor. Use with caution.

Chelle: There you go. Or you could just use it as part of an incense or an oil blend, a candle dressing. You don't have to ingest any of these in order to use them in your spellwork.

Laylla: Okay. What do you got next for me on your list?

Chelle: This is another one. This is again on the list of Chelle can't kill. Catnip.

Laylla: Oh, I love catnip. Oh, I'm so glad you put that in there. That's a great one to smoke.

Chelle: Now, this all started with me having cats and like, well, if I'm going to grow stuff, let me see if I can grow some catnip for the cats. Ha ha ha ha ha. I have so much catnip, like I don't even know. Like, again, I can't kill this for the life of me. I've left it out in the snow and the cold, and it grows back every year. I don't know if catnip's invasive, but it's definitely not easily killed. But again, this is something that can be used for protection, it can be used to enhance intentions, um love magic, friendships, warding off negativity. And, you know, obviously, because my cats love it, I associate it with like kitty cat magic.

Chelle: That's so cute.

Chelle: You know, I had a cat that me and my children loved for many, many years, and he was a lover and a hater, but we loved him.

Chelle: Yeah.

Chelle: And there's been times where when I've burned it in an incense, I feel like my my old kitty boy is around.

Chelle: Aw. That's so sweet. Maybe

Chelle: You remember the lick-lick bites?

Chelle: I do. I do.

Chelle: So, I I do think that it's also a way to kind of get in touch with that feline energy, but that could just be me being crazy and trying to connect with my cat that has passed away and using this as a means. I don't know.

Chelle: I don't see why it wouldn't work. I mean, you know, if you can call ancestors with things that they like, why not a beloved cat spirit?

Chelle: But I will tell you this, because I did test this theory. So, you know how the catnip makes the kitty cats loopy, right? And I've given it to them fresh, I've dried it out and saved it and, you know, piecemealed it to them over the winter. So, I thought, you know, let me try this in a tea because, well, if it makes the cats all woo-hoo and stuff, well, let me see what it does. I didn't get all woo-hoo and stuff, damn it. Even though it's kind of a hallucinogenic to cats, not for humans, folks. And

Chelle: Not so much.

Chelle: I didn't like the tea taste, but again, it is something for that I utilize in loose incense.

Chelle: You can smoke catnip. I have smoked catnip. Smoking it also will not give you the cat woo-hoo. It's relaxing. It's actually uh very calming and very relaxed. This is one of those herbs that I would recommend that you mix with a base herb of some type, mullein, usually, cannabis if that's your bag. But a little bit of catnip with other herbs is very nice, very relaxing.

Chelle: Yeah, that's where I go wrong. I end up I end up trying it like as the lone soldier, and I'm like, yuck, yuck, yuck.

Chelle: See, the rule with smokables is that um there's different herbs will have a different taste, like a different mouthfeel. The smoke from different herbs will be different. So, you want like a full-bodied smoke to be the main part of your of your smokable, and then you'll add your flavoring herbs and your supportive herbs after that. So, catnip would be more like a flavoring herb that you'd add.

Chelle: So, what you're saying is mix it with my weed and I'll be fine.

Chelle: Mix it with your weed and you'll be happier. Exactly. There you go.

Chelle: I got you.

Chelle: I feel like we've kind of inadvertently got like all these protection, love, purifying things going on, but this is definitely something that you could mix into a loose incense for protection magic, for cleansing magic, repelling negativity. I've never used it with any sort of love or relationship, but there is that association.

Chelle: You could.

Chelle: You could.

Chelle: I just never have.

Chelle: The association with love with catnip is because, you know, cats obviously love it. If you want someone to go crazy for you like a cat does for catnip, or sometimes people will describe something that's super desirable as catnip. They'll say, oh, that's like catnip to me. Chocolate is like catnip to me.

Chelle: Honestly, I'm not sure if I would roll around on the ground and and bunny paw my belly with my feet over chocolate, the way my cat does. I'm just saying.

Chelle: Well, see, then you would not say that chocolate was like catnip to you. But, yeah, so people say use that saying, right? So, if there's someone that's like catnip to you that you want them, or you want them to think of you that way, I guess I could see using the herb that way.

Chelle: But, like, I had had all these cuttings because I would go and clip some of the leaves to either dry or give fresh to the cats right there. I dropped like a handful of leaves last summer. No harm, no foul. It's like I have this huge plant of them. Do you know this year where I dropped that little pile, there is actually catnip growing out between the rocks? This is again like super resilient. So, it's on my my top list of things to try.

Chelle: Well, full confession, I got a couple catnip plants last year that I put in one of my gardens, and I don't know yet if they're coming up again this year because there's like 27 different things all growing in that part of the garden because it's a little neglected at the moment. So, maybe.

Chelle: But if you remember from last year, when you had just recently moved into the house you're in currently, remember when I walked up your stairs, I walked up the little path, and under your first stair, you had these like catnip leaves that were the size of my fist.

Chelle: I had giant catnip plants under my stairs.

Chelle: You don't even know where they came from.

Chelle: No. And I'm hoping it comes back this year. I'm not sure if those are up yet, either.

Chelle: Well, if my catnip gives any indication, nothing will kill that shit, and it'll be back.

Chelle: It'll be back.

Laylla: What is your next one?

Chelle: My next one is a little more fun. Like you said, we had a lot of protection and cleansing, and this one is joy and abundance, light and attraction, and it's all about happiness and confidence.

Laylla: Ooh.

Chelle: This is calendula, also called marigold.

Laylla: I remember as a kid, when it was like towards the end of, quote, unquote, marigold season, we would have to pick the heads off, and my mother would make us pluck all the little flower petal things off to collect the seeds to dry for the next year.

Chelle: You know, my dad did that, too, actually.

Laylla: And we'd have these Ziploc bags full of little petals of marigold seeds.

Chelle: You know, last year, my dad brought me over this really nice planter full of a whole bunch of plants and marigolds, and he made sure to tell me that as they died and as they dried off, I was to pluck the things, the little seed pods, and save them. Yeah, I did. So, I know those will be coming back.

Laylla: That was a a big part of my childhood from my refused to acknowledge her witchy ways grandmother.

Chelle: Yeah, they were not witches. Mm-mm. So, marigold, calendula, you can use you can use them for protection, you can use them to prevent evil from coming in. You can also scatter the leaves and the or the petals under your bed for prophetic dreams. They are associated with remembrance ceremonies, with funerals, with the deceased, depending on your culture. There are some cultures that use them for that. Part of that is because of the sunny, bright nature of these flowers. They're so beautiful that they help you to remember the sweetness of life, the brightness of life. So, even when you're remembering someone who has passed, they help you to remember the joy of that person's life.

Laylla: You know, it's so funny that you say that because when I was younger, people still do this, but not as much as back in the day. You know, we'd get dragged to the cemetery in the spring time to clean off every person I've ever been blood-related to ever's gravestone. And my grandmother would sit there and plant marigolds literally at everybody's tombstone. And I'm like, why would you pick these flowers of all things? Now, it's all making sense to me.

Chelle: It's about remembrance, but it's more about remembering the happy times. It's about positivity and joy. So, it's not remember your ancestors or the dead with sadness. That's why they're so bright and remind you of the sun because you're supposed to remember them in happiness and in joy, in better times.

Laylla: Well, and they also grow in sunshine colors, orange and yellow.

Chelle: Exactly. Yep. And so now in ritual, they're used a lot to connect with ancestors, but they're also used for healing rituals, more for like emotional healing, for soothing a broken heart. If you have painful memories that you can't get over, if you have regrets, if you have problems in your life that you really want to soothe and move past, calendula's really good for that because, again, it helps you to see the positive side of things. It helps you to see that the sun will come up even after things have been difficult.

Laylla: This is mind-blowing because, honestly, I'm not going to lie, I never thought of marigolds for a magical purpose. Obviously, they're a plant, they're a flower, obviously, but like, I guess in my mind, I always associated it with going and planting them at the graves every spring with my grandma and plucking those damn things out and putting them in Ziploc bags. I never thought of them magically.

Chelle: They're also good for protection, and I have a similar story because when I grew up, when my mother would plant a garden, she would always plant marigolds all around the perimeter of the garden. And it's because they're a natural pest repellent, insect repellent. Because of that, again, this idea of sympathetic magic, like-for-like magic, because it deters pests, you can also use it to deter negative energy, any pest-like energy you don't want to come into your house. If you put up marigolds around the perimeter of your house, that will help keep negativity from being able to come in.

Laylla: Yeah, my grandma wasn't a witch. Just ask her.

Chelle: No, don't ask her. She would have been mad. But for your grandmother, planting them as a remembrance for the dead, it was to remember them with joy.

Laylla: I'm not going to lie, I just thought because they were cheap flowers at the grocery store.

Chelle: Maybe. But, again, like you said, they're yellow and orange. So, if you want to bring joy, you want to sprinkle some sunshine in your life, grab some of those petals and use it in a spell. In a smokable spell, same thing. It's uplifting. It has a very nice citrusy kind of taste. So, it even tastes like sunshine. But, again, put it in with a with a base herb as a flavoring and with the intention to uplift, bring joy into your life, invigoration, bring happiness. You could use it for money, the golden glow of gold, attracting money. So, again, that uplifting, happy, joy, success, all of those things, you can put that in in your smokable spell.

Laylla: Now, I find it funny that you diverted to kind of something a little flowery. So, my next one also happens to be flowery. To me, this is like a staple. Chamomile. Need I say more?

Chelle: I love chamomile. So sweet, so soothing.

Laylla: Yeah, yeah. How I first fell in love with chamomile, which is super funny, is I absolutely love daisies. I don't know why. I got no rhyme or reason. I think they remind me of my childhood. My grandma used to freaking crochet daisy blankets. I don't know what the thing is I have with daisies. But I used to think that chamomile was a daisy because they basically look the same. And as I got older and kind of got into to herbalism a little bit, I learned that they are not. But it became kind of one of those staple things for me making like homemade tea, trying to to make things and conjure my own little tea recipes. I like how it grows because it's so pretty. But but aside from kind of promoting that positiveness, like some of the other things we've talked about, it can kind of repel that negativeness and kind of that little protection, balance. As with everything that we've talked about, you can use it for love. But I find that this is one of those things that there's something about a flower popping that brings you joy. You know, I like growing the sage and the mint and the and the catnip, but there's something about watching that flower pop. Maybe I'm a weirdo. I don't know.

Chelle: We love flowers in the spring and summer.

Laylla: I used to have chamomile grow in the back of my house in New York, and there was a couple of times that I would pick off the heads and float the flower heads in my bath and take like a chamomile bath.

Chelle: Oh, that sounds nice. That sounds really nice. You want a relaxing bath, that's one witchy way to do it.

Laylla: Light your candles, put some flower heads in your bath, boom. I don't generally burn it a lot just because I with chamomile, I tend to more drink it.

Chelle: I like chamomile in my tea, and just about any tea, I can throw some chamomile. I tend to get mine in big bags, and it's it's dried, and it's usually the head of the flower.

Laylla: Yep.

Chelle: And I like to

Laylla: It's good for that dreaming, that that sleeping, that that deep inner alpha/sleep work.

Chelle: Mm, yes. I like to smoke chamomile for relaxation and for spells where I want to have a soothing, slow, gentle energy. My only problem with smoking chamomile is you definitely need a grinder. It's a pain. Those big flowers, you got to grind them up.

Laylla: Yeah, I've never smoked it. Like I said, my go-to with chamomile has always really just been tea.

Chelle: It's just so nice in a tea. It tastes good, tastes good smoked, tastes good in a tea. It's super easy that way.

Laylla: Put a little honey in it, boom. Good stuff.

Chelle: That's summer in a cup right there.

Laylla: But also, if you have problems sleeping, um or if you have anxiety about sleeping, this can kind of get you into that relaxed and mellow, sleepy mode. Actually, what there is a a tea brand, I can't remember which one it is, but it's one of the top three brands. They do one called Sleepytime. All it is is chamomile tea, people.

Chelle: And if you're going to be doing meditation, if you're going to be doing dreamwork, and you don't want to do something like mugwort or damiana that's a little little more psychoactive, that's going to be a little stronger, chamomile is a wonderful wonderful herb to use to assist you if you're going to be doing meditation work or dreamwork.

Laylla: It's an alternative, too, as if if you're like me and are allergic to the mugwort.

Chelle: Exactly. Maybe you want to drink a cup of chamomile tea with, like you said, with honey because that's going to bring in that sunshine, that summer energy, before you do a tarot reading or before you do your tarot draws.

Laylla: I've also mixed it with the mint that I grow, too.

Chelle: Yeah, that'll give you the energy, the clarity from the sunshine, and that will also give you the calmness and the connection to your psychic ability from the chamomile. And so that just kind of helps you ease into that meditation or into that psychic work that you're doing.

Chelle: This one, I wouldn't say it has the resilience to my growing methods as the other three. I just buy new seeds every year and keep on keeping on. But I definitely think that flower wise, it's definitely one of the top ones. I like it because the smell is good, the taste is good, and again, I can mix it with different things. It mixes well with other things. It plays well with others in the sandbox well.

Laylla: Yeah.

Chelle: I can mix this with, I go and buy kind of loose teas or or ingredients for loose teas. I can mix rose hips that I bought with the chamomile and kind of make my own little florally blend of tea. I like to use it not just solely by itself, but mixed with other things. It mixes well with other flavors, if you're doing the tea thing.

Laylla: And in spell work, adding chamomile to your spell in in whatever form, incense, tea, smokable, brings that subtle happiness, that quiet joy. It brings a nice, even keel, a nice, even centeredness to whatever you're doing. It's it's gentle. It's nice. It's calming. And you can pretty much add that to any spell that you're doing to just bring a nice note into it, to just bring that nice calming energy.

Chelle: But it's also an intention booster, too. So, you know, you can kind of amplify your intentions with something like chamomile.

Laylla: Exactly. And not in a jarring way, in just a nice, smooth way.

Chelle: But it's also one of those things where it's nice to just kind of sit out on the deck on a summer evening and just drink some chamomile tea for the sake of. It doesn't even have to be for magical reasons. It's good to just just drink. Enjoy the tea.

Laylla: Chamomile, mint, and rose hips sounds like a nice summer evening to me.

Chelle: Just saying.

Laylla: Now, my last herb, this one's my favorite, and it's another one that I used to have growing in abundance in my yard, and I wish I did now. And you're probably going to laugh at me when I say this.

Chelle: If it's something weird, yes, I am.

Laylla: It is. Stinging nettle.

Chelle: What? I love it. It's perfect. You are a weirdo.

Laylla: Yes, I am.

Chelle: Although, nettle tea has its juices. I'll give you that.

Laylla: It does. Magically, health-wise, stinging nettles are fantastic. This herb has been used for thousands of years all over the place.

Chelle: But you know they call it stinging nettle for a reason, right?

Laylla: I do. I used to play with it when I was a kid.

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: We'd sting each other on purpose. Oh, I know all about stinging nettle. Did you know that if you pick stinging nettle from the bottom up, you won't get stung? If you touch it more from the top down, you're going to get stung and it's going to react to you worse.

Chelle: Really?

Laylla: Yeah, tip. I think I learned that from Amy Blackthorn.

Chelle: I figured you learned that from torturing your brothers, but who am I?

Laylla: That, too. Now, stinging nettle is for strength. It's for protection. It's all about vitality. It's also good for boundaries. If you're doing shadow work or if you need to enforce your own boundaries or work with boundaries, it's fabulous for that.

Chelle: I've actually used I've used stinging nettle and put it on my windowsills as like a like a like a ward of some sort.

Laylla: Exactly. It's going to enforce your boundaries for sure. Now, you can eat it. You can smoke it. You can drink it. Cooking it will inactivate the chemical that's in the sting.

Chelle: Oh, I've never drank it. What's that taste like?

Laylla: Green.

Chelle: Okay.

Laylla: Earthy. It's green. It's not bad. It's good. But nettle tea, it's very good for you, actually. But it's also good for empowerment and resilience. In smokable blends, you can smoke it once you dry it in small I would only put it in small amounts. It doesn't really taste like much smoked. Doesn't really do much, but it is good for grounding in a smokable spell. It has been used in all sorts of rituals. There are rituals in ancient Greece. It's one of the herbs that are in the Anglo-Saxon nine herbs charm for protection. The Celts used stinging nettles and they felt that it would protect them from fairies and from elves. People have used it to cleanse themselves. People would actually take bundles of fresh nettles and they'll beat themselves with it.

Chelle: What the heck?

Laylla: Yeah. And it I have never done it, but from what I've heard, it's very invigorating and it's kind of good for you.

Chelle: I'm thinking no.

Laylla: It only lasts for a couple of minutes. Like I said, we did it when we were kids. It was no big deal.

Chelle: I've heard that before. It's only going to hurt for a minute.

Laylla: But when done by a practitioner, it can help clear away negativity in your body. It can help break hexes. It can help you with clarity, renewal. The Celts used to feed their cattle nettles so that they couldn't be hexed by witches.

Chelle: Weird.

Laylla: Have you ever heard of the Seven Swans?

Chelle: I don't think so.

Laylla: It's one of my favorite myths and it has to do with nettles, funnily enough.

Chelle: Other than on the 12 days of Christmas, seven swans a-swimming.

Laylla: Nope. This one has to do with a king who had seven sons and a daughter and he married a new queen. And somehow, a curse came, whether from the queen or someone who came to the land, I'm not sure. It depends on the tale. And the seven sons were turned into swans. The daughter was banished and she found the queen of the fairies who told her that to break the curse on her brothers, she had to knit them each a shirt from nettles. Now, the stalk of nettles is very fibrous. You can actually make fabric and rope, things like that, from the stalk of nettles.

Chelle: Oh.

Laylla: And so part of this was she couldn't speak the entire time.

Chelle: I have a feeling that didn't work out.

Laylla: It did not work out. So she's gathering all these stinging nettles at night and in graveyards, trying to hide from the queen, and she can't speak. And the king from a neighboring country sees her out one night as she's gathering these nettles to knit shirts for her brothers. And of course, he falls in love with her. I don't know why, but anyway, she can't talk to him. So he brings her back to his castle where she continues to gather nettles in the graveyards at night. She only has until the end of the year to finish the shirts and break the curse on her brothers. So she keeps doing this in secret, now trying to hide from the king, until one night, an advisor to the king sees her and decides this is evil witchcraft and tells the king that she's a witch and has to be burned. And because she can't speak, she can't defend herself. So the day of her death is coming very soon and it's also around the same time that her time limit for making these shirts for her brothers is coming. So she's knitting and knitting and knitting as she's being dragged to the stake and her brothers come in the form of swans and she throws these shirts over them just in the nick of time. And she wasn't able to finish the last one. There was one sleeve missing on the last one. So one brother always had the wing of a swan, but they were all able to come back. She lived and was able to speak and declare her innocence. But she was knitting nettles. So nettles can help you break curses. They can help protect you from fairies. They can help to do boundaries. And so that's kind of encapsulated a little bit in that story.

Chelle: I don't know how to knit, so I think my brother would kind of be SOL in that story. I was just going to say, I my fifth and final herb, this is I know something that is kind of a mainstay with you. It just didn't make your top five list. But we're going to talk a little bit about the historically wonderful rosemary.

Laylla: I love it. It's the switchblade knife of herbs.

Chelle: You know, it is. It really is. What can you not use rosemary for?

Laylla: It's like clear quartz. You can use it for everything.

Chelle: Protection, getting rid of negative energy, love, love, like everything. I feel like everything that all the herbs we've talked about tonight are all about. You can burn it. You can smoke it. You can drink it. Like, what can't you use rosemary for? This one is more of a I do better with the grocery store rosemary. I'm not going to lie. Don't judge me. But I am trying this year to grow it. We'll see how that works out. I'll update you later. But again, this one can be like one thing that a tea can be used for, protection during dream magic. So again, another good one to kind of combined with chamomile. Chamomile can get you there. Rosemary will protect you from all the ugly boogey-boogey's while you're there. So it's universal for cleansing, warding off negative energy. Some people even use it to kind of enhance your memory. I don't know about that, but that could be all the weed. Again, like you were saying with the marigold, this can be one that folks use to kind of honor ancestors, honor the dead. There's just so many uses for rosemary. It's like a it's it's like allspice. It's like the allspice of things you can grow.

Laylla: Can you use allspice for everything?

Chelle: You know, I have. Don't judge. It's a tool to have in every toolbox because you can pull out rosemary and use it pretty much in a pinch for anything.

Laylla: You know, I I like that you said it's like the clear quartz of herbs because it really is. If you need a substitute for something and you don't know what to use, use rosemary. It's like one of those it's like the universal substitute, like clear quartz. It really is.

Chelle: It's the Swiss Army knife of herbs, for sure, because you can pretty much use it for everything.

Laylla: I mean, I I can't think of anything I wouldn't use it for, um, just because it is kind of universal. And that could just be me making up my own definitions for rosemary. But again, this is my first go at growing it and not getting it from Wegmans. So we'll see how that goes.

Chelle: Rosemary is not a typical smoke of mine. I'll have to go back to my notes. I can't think of the last time or when I ever tried it. Um, usually I use it in incenses, in a smoke bundle, or in a loose incense.

Chelle: It's a good, not as a main ingredient, but it's a good like accent ingredient in tea. I wouldn't drink just rosemary plain tea because it's kind of, eh, not the greatest. But it is something that you can use as kind of a little accent, little woody, piney. I wouldn't drink it alone.

Laylla: And when you're doing spell work, if you're doing a sippable or a smokable spell, you don't have to just put in the one herb. Say we want to do some dream work. And so we've decided we're going to make a chamomile tea with a little bit of damiana, mugwort, and rosemary in it. You don't need to put in a half a cup of rosemary. You can make a mainly chamomile tea as your main ingredient and just sprinkles.

Chelle: Just sprinkles.

Laylla: Just put sprinkles of the other herbs in, if you'd like to. Just a little bit. In spell work, even a small amount, even just a small amount of the herb carries the entire magical intent.

Chelle: It doesn't have to be equal parts.

Laylla: Right. Talk to that herb. Tell it your intention. Say, "Hey, rosemary, Swiss Army knife, clear quartz of herbs. I would like you to focus on supporting me through my dream work." And then just sprinkle a tiny bit in your tea. Their intentions can be done in just a small amount, I guess is what I'm saying. You don't need to have a ton of it.

Chelle: A little goes a long way.

Laylla: Yeah, let them lend their energy from a small point.

Chelle: So I think that maybe my takeaway with my five that I picked are go with universal uses, things that you think you can actually grow. And if you're not going to grow these things, you know, maybe they're things that you're going to buy at the store. Put a little love into them. That seems to be working for me, you know. A little love goes a long way with plants, I'm learning.

Laylla: It does. They like you they want you to talk to them. They like it. They love that. So between the two of us, we definitely have a pretty good apothecary for summer spell work.

Chelle: You, I think, have ones that need tender loving care. And I I have ones that you can use and abuse and they'll still grow.

Laylla: See, I'm not you don't necessarily have to grow these. I'm not talking about herbs mine aren't necessarily herbs you have to grow.

Chelle: Yeah, I picked the ones I grow because I'm so damn proud of myself.

Laylla: I am proud of you, too. This is exciting. I know your outdoor plants tend to do better than your indoor plants, but it's pretty impressive that you can grow anything.

Chelle: I wouldn't go that far, so I wouldn't go that far yet.

Laylla: You know, our five herbs of summer is actually more like 10 or 11 herbs of summer, but hey, you can never have too many.

Chelle: And this definitely, you know, we both had a struggle keeping it down to this much. There's there's so many more we could have covered, so.

Laylla: Dandelions. I wanted to talk about dandelions, but next time.

Chelle: Next time.

Laylla: All right. So thank you so much for listening to this episode where we go over some herbs that you can use for your summer of spells this year.

Chelle: If you are looking for something to grow, maybe we've inspired you. Maybe we've given you something that, like me, you can't kill no matter how hard you try. Or maybe just something that you can buy at your local witchy shop down the street. The point is we want you to get into a groove of growing some herbs, learning some herbs, keeping some herbs in your toolbox, and loving them. Loving them like we love them.

Laylla: Whether it's sippable, smokable, or in an incense, herbs add so much to your spell work. I hope you guys are having a wonderful summer and are going to add some of these herbs to your workings. So thanks so much. We will see you next week. In the meantime, give us some likes, some stars, some reviews. It really helps the show out and makes our summer a little better.

Chelle: I got to go, Laylla. I got plants to water.

Laylla: Yes, you do. You need to keep them alive and proof of life, Chelle. We need proof of life.

Chelle: Proof of life.

Laylla: All right. So while Chelle goes and takes pictures, I'm going to go wrap up some herbs in a nice little smokable joint and we will see you next week. Be wise, be wicked.

Chelle: And use that green thumb and keep it witchy.
