Voiceover: Welcome to Back on the Broomstick, a modern witch's spoken word grimoire, where two witchy friends from way back are reconnecting to their pagan roots after a long period of mundanity. We're walking the path of the wise and trying out all the latest spells, rituals, and magical theory in today's witchcraft and pagan practices. So grab your wand and your incense, your cauldron and your crystals, and join us as we get back on the broomstick.

Laylla: Hi, and welcome to Back on the Broomstick. I'm Laylla, and on this episode, we're celebrating World Tarot Day. It's not like Chelle or I need an excuse to celebrate Tarot. It's World Tarot Day pretty much every day over here. But we'll be giving you some ideas on how to connect with your deck, use your deck in magic or ritual practices, and we'll be talking about one of our favorite things, Tarot spread creation. So grab your favorite deck, grab a journal, and join us for a Tarot-centric episode.

Chelle: And hi, everyone. I'm Chelle. I'm a Tarot addict. I mean, I mean, I love Tarot and it's great and it's fun and I love it. I'm not addicted.

Laylla: Yeah, no, no. What, who said that? Nobody said that. Nobody has said that at all. But this is not your day. It's a day for everyone who loves Tarot.

Chelle: I do find it ironic that it's within the vicinity of my birthday.

Laylla: I'm actually not surprised at all that it's coming up the same week as your birthday. This episode, not only is it right before World Tarot Day, which is every year on May 25th, it is also right before World Chelle Day, which is on May 31st. World Chelle Day, it's a thing.

Chelle: It's a huge thing. And this year, it is the biggest, most amazing, most wonderful thing, my bestie's birthday comes up the end of this month.

Laylla: It does. I'm excited. I'm very excited.

Chelle: Going to be... Well, wait a minute, you're older than me. Let's not, let's not forget that, folks. Laylla's older than me, for the record.

Laylla: Only numerically.

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: So, the 31st is Chelle's birthday, and the 25th is World Tarot Day. So, this episode, we're going to kind of be celebrating both of those things.

Chelle: Well, you know, I've been celebrating for weeks now, and probably will celebrate my birthday all summer, but that's neither here nor there.

Laylla: And we've been celebrating Tarot for decades.

Chelle: I think the biggest thing that I wanted to point out to folks is, yes, there is such a thing as World Tarot Day. Not a lot of people, surprised, I'm surprised, maybe I shouldn't be, but I'm surprised a lot of people, especially a lot of Tarot-minded people, didn't realize that there was actually a day for Tarot.

Laylla: World Tarot Day was founded by a person named Den Elder in 2003. And she is a Tarot reader from way back, and apparently, she got tired about hearing all these negative things about Tarot back in the early 2000s.

Chelle: I'm still tired of it, and it's not the early 2000s anymore.

Laylla: While I was doing a little bit of research for this episode, I saw several people mention how Tarot invites in demons and is evil and and is just a path to hell. So, yeah, those ideas are still out there.

Chelle: Well, if that's true, then I'm on the highway to hell.

Laylla: In a handbasket, apparently, and filled with Tarot cards.

Chelle: Taking all my decks with me.

Laylla: Right? So, Den, she did an interview for the American Tarot Association about this day. And she said that she really wanted to celebrate Tarot and wanted a whole day to recognize it and to celebrate, quote, "our love for this tool and get over our differences." You know, seriously, a day to get over it, really.

Chelle: I think I really need to meet Den Elder because I think we're on the same wavelength. I really do.

Laylla: There should be more days in the year, so we're with you, Den. At least there's this one. I'm happy to celebrate it. You know, what the heck? Made-up holidays, I'm down. So, what are some of the things that you can do to celebrate World Tarot Day? Den herself has a couple of ideas that were published in an interview that she did with the American Tarot Association. I'll post a link to the article, but a few of them are: give a friend or a complete stranger a Tarot reading. I don't necessarily know if I recommend the complete stranger one, your mileage may vary, but if you do, email us, let us know how it goes. You could also use the Tarot as a meditation tool or contemplate your life's purpose. But if you're regular listeners of this show, you should be doing that already anyway. You could also write a short story based on one or more of the Tarot cards, which is one of the ways that I was taught to learn the meanings of the cards. You could also wear something special, symbolic jewelry, a design drawn on your skin, etc., to pay homage to a court card or one of the suits. You could research and learn at least one new fact about the history of the Tarot. Go back and listen to our episode about Pixie, Pamela Colman Smith, if you haven't already. That'll fulfill that for you. And of course, Chelle's favorite suggestion: buy a new Tarot deck or trade one with a bestie.

Chelle: Oh my god, I have a great idea. In celebration of World Tarot Day, I should get a new deck.

Laylla: Yes, yes, you should.

Chelle: Absolutely.

Laylla: I think I should too, actually. I'm going to be on the hunt for a new deck. There's been a couple I've been looking at on Kickstarter, so maybe I'll grab one of those as a special treat.

Chelle: I have gone against the grain. I I I don't know who I am anymore. You and I personally have talked about this for years. Here with our our folks in the audience, we've talked about it pretty much from the start. I am a creature of habit. That Witch's Tarot, Ellen Cannon Reed, was my BFF, with you as well, for decades. And then I had some strange epiphany and fell back into the Rider-Waite-Smith deck, which I vowed never to do and somehow did. And I have now ventured out into a couple other decks. I think I have actively used more decks in the last year or two than I have in 30 years. I'm almost surprised myself.

Laylla: With the amount of amazing artists and decks that are coming out, I'm not surprised, because one of your big draws you've always had has been the artwork. And I admit, if I see a gorgeous deck, I can't resist. I like the symbology more, so even a pretty deck sometimes, if the symbology is just not hitting for me, then it's just not a deck for me. But there's so many out there to choose from, it makes it kind of difficult and kind of fun.

Chelle: Well, and also, I think I have found if I'm in one mood, I want to play with one deck, and if I'm in a different mood, I want to play with a different deck. And that was never the case before. So, I feel like almost like the Tarot decks I'm actually using is expanding. Not what I own, but what I'm physically using.

Laylla: I've found that to be the case as well. When I first started reading, it was a deck that my grandmother had given to me. I think she got it at a thrift store. It was Tarot: The Ancient Path, which is basically a Rider-Waite clone, and it was by Dynamic Design back in the '70s. And it's very pretty. It's a very pretty Rider-Waite-Smith clone. It's Pixie's art through the whole thing. And I love that deck. Then I started using one that was a little more stylized called the Londa Tarot when I started reading with other people.

Chelle: Oh, I remember that, and that was such a you deck.

Laylla: Yeah. They look like elves, like tall, skinny elves kind of. That was my reading for other people deck.

Chelle: I do own it, but I could never connect with it. But every time I look at it, I'm like, "Yeah, that's so Laylla."

Laylla: And it worked wonderfully for me to read for other people. But when I read for myself, or if I read for you, or other people that were close to me, I would go back to my original Rider-Waite-Smith clone.

Chelle: Old faithful.

Laylla: Old faithful, yeah. And I still have the original deck. I love that deck. Like you, I go through moods. Depending on my mood or why I'm reading or who I'm reading for, there's decks that I'll use. And I keep finding that I'm returning time and time again to the Witch's Wisdom Tarot by Phyllis Curott with the artwork by Danielle Barlow.

Chelle: You've loved that since the day it was released.

Laylla: Love that deck. There's just so much to it, and I love that it's a little different. I also love an independent deck. This is one by Tarot-Teka Studios. It's called the Dark Mansion Tarot. And it's just, it's just beautiful. The artwork on it is just very different. It's rich. It's a little dark, but it's got a lot of symbology in it. And I like cards that have a lot of images, that have a lot of colors, that have all those symbols in it, you know?

Chelle: Well, I've always felt like you have kind of, and correct me if I'm wrong, I feel like you've kind of always been more attracted to like, I don't want to say the darker decks, but like the Londa...

Laylla: Yeah, no, it's true. It's true.

Chelle: But with me, it really is kind of mood-dependent, but I always kind of settle back to that Celtic look. And I think that's what drew me to the Ellen Cannon Reed Witch's Tarot, very Celtic. But right now, I cannot get enough of Lalania Simone's deck. Like, I just can't. The Tarot of the Cosmic Seed.

Laylla: Gorgeous deck.

Chelle: Gorgeous deck. But that's like a me deck. Or, you know, if if you came to me and was like, "You know, hey, Chelle, can you pull some cards?" Totally, 110%. But I don't think this is a deck I would want to use for public readings. If I'm reading for people professionally, that is not going to be the deck I pull.

Laylla: Right. And, you know, that's a really, really good point. When I'm pulling cards for my nightly Tarot pull, I tend to pull the Witch's Wisdom. And I've used it for that purpose so much that the deck has become very personal to me, and I only rarely use it to read for someone else. And usually for another person, I'll grab a Smith-Waite deck or the Londa Tarot, because those are decks that I associate with reading for other people. But using cards and different decks for different purposes is really, really smart because it can really help you get in touch with different parts of your brain and different parts of your magical self.

Chelle: You know, funny story that we didn't talk about prior, that that you just sparked in my brain. I have over the years done a couple readings in relation to each of my children. And as you are well aware, when they were significantly younger, I had bought them each a deck. And I have the same decks in my collection. So, if I were to do something for my son, if I was trying to either do a reading for him or about him, my go-to would be the Gummy Bear Tarot. And by the way, if you have not seen the Gummy Bear Tarot, cute as hell. But that was my son's deck. So, if I was going to do a reading relating to my son, that almost kind of mentally makes that connection because I know that that was his deck. Whereas my daughter had an Alice in Wonderland Tarot. So, if I was doing something relating to her, I would be more apt to use my Alice in Wonderland Tarot as almost like a connection to her, you know what I'm saying?

Laylla: That's perfect.

Chelle: With you, I have a Londa Tarot. If you were like, "Hey, Chelle, could you pull me some cards?" I'm like, "Yeah, I'll get that stinking Londa Tarot." Because when I see that Londa Tarot deck, I think of you. So, it would almost be like Laylla energy because it's the Londa deck, you know? But, I mean, for all three of you, obviously, I would still use the same deck I use for myself. But I do feel like almost like there's a personal deck and a public deck.

Laylla: You get different connections with them, and whether that connection is energetic or interpretive, because sometimes some decks are easier to interpret for other people, and some decks, the imagery is easier to, it speaks to yourself better. You know, you might get more understanding internally than you'd really be able to explain to another person.

Chelle: I guess I'm a little more weird about it, and you know how I am with analogies. And I guess the best analogy I can think of is, I will share my food with you, but I don't necessarily want you eating off my plate.

Laylla: Sure. Yeah, exactly. Some are super personal. Absolutely.

Chelle: Yeah, yeah, yeah. Like, I feel like, like especially, you know, this Tarot of the Cosmic Seed, I feel like the connection I have built with that deck is between me and that deck. You know, that that is not for other people's energy to be penetrating, you know what I'm saying? Whereas my Rider-Waite-Smith deck, I feel like that is more, you know, "Hey, I'll use it..."

Laylla: Egalitarian. It's for like everybody, yeah.

Chelle: Yeah, yeah. It's not as, it's not as private and personal in, it's a different relationship, you know what I mean?

Laylla: Yeah, absolutely. And you can build that with your decks by using them exclusively for a certain purpose. So, maybe you have a deck that you only use when you're doing your Tarot card pulls, you know, or you're doing it for daily journaling or for meditation purposes. And you can really build a relationship with that deck where it feels weird to use it for something else. Or like you, it's so personal to you that it would almost feel like showing a stranger your underwear, and you just don't want to do that.

Chelle: Exactly. Also, listeners, this is Chelle's subliminal way of trying to get you to buy multiple decks. Ha! But, I mean, really, this is how I ended up with over 200 decks. What suits my fancy right now? What would I like to go read in the public? What deck will speak to me privately? Like, I just can't get enough. I want more.

Laylla: Whether you're someone who uses them for divination or not, you can use Tarot cards for all sorts of different reasons. I think they're an excellent way to get in touch with your subconscious. They can really help you move past problems. You can use them for self-reflection. You can work with them if you're magically stuck. You can cast spells with Tarot cards. They're an excellent companion for shadow work. Using Tarot cards in your magical practice can take so many different shapes and forms, and sometimes using different decks for those purposes can help.

Chelle: We've even used Tarot as a component of a ritual.

Laylla: Mhm, absolutely. You know, the Fool's Journey, the the meditation that we just recently put out, that type of work you can do by pulling cards and journaling with that. You don't have to use the cards just to divine the future or to answer questions. You can use them for all sorts of different magical purposes, meditation, ritual, spellwork especially.

Chelle: But, you know, that kind of circles back to what I what I was saying about I have a me deck, and then I have like a, quote-unquote, "public deck." Because if I'm doing spells and rituals and and meditative work with that deck, I don't want other people's energy a part of that. You know what I mean?

Laylla: Mhm. And I think any professional Tarot reader would say they have a private deck and a public deck. Quick aside, kind of reminded me of a couple different things. If you do use Tarot cards to read for other people, not only sometimes is it is it good to have a personal deck and a public deck, it's also a good idea to protect your deck from outside energies when you don't want it to be picking up energy. Because if you're using a deck that's attuned to pick up someone's energy when you do readings for them, it's a good idea to keep that deck covered when you don't want it to be picking up someone else's energy. When I was first given my deck, I was told that I was supposed to keep it in, preferably silk, but some type of natural fabric. I'm not quite so strict about it now, but I still like to keep them in a bag or a box or something like that to protect them from that outside energy.

Chelle: That was something that you kind of put off on me about 30 years ago, and it stuck with me. A, if I'm using a deck regularly, I do not keep it in the box. I actually have, shout out, Pug, to Laura Tempest Zakroff, I use the, you know, the silk bags, or you had taught me back in the day before there were bags that fit Tarot decks, my grandmother gave me a bunch of her old 1970s-era silk scarves. And wrap them up. If you're not using them, wrap them up. If they're in a box, I'm not regularly using them. If they are in a bag or silk, they are in the in-use pile.

Laylla: Same. And I do feel that that helps to keep them separate, to keep them special. It helps to keep their energy protected. I also like to shuffle the deck and cleanse it, clear it, clear the energy before I hand it to a client or before I do a reading for someone else. You know, I'll clear that through and do the energy, put them all in one direction, maybe.

Chelle: One thing I've always done when I've read publicly, in between clients, I reorder the cards. I know you said that, you know, you write side them up and and do your thing. I literally reorder them. But I also do a like a almost like a, I don't want to say like a cleansing ritual, but after public readings, I kind of do a cleansing ritual and cleanse my deck.

Laylla: Oh, absolutely. And, you know, you kind of get into a rhythm of it where you do a reading for someone, you shuffle through, and you just know you're like, cleanse, cleanse, clear, clear, clear, clear, clear, clear, clear, you know, you just you kind of get into that rhythm of it. But you should do that regularly with your own deck, even if you're not reading for other people. You know, reorder them, go through it, put them back in order, put them all straight up.

Chelle: Sometimes in my Tarot bags, I keep a a little uh clear quartz crystal as well.

Laylla: Oh, that's a great idea. That's a great idea. You know, something like a little clear quartz if you need to ground them a little, a little bit of hematite, something like that, you're good, you're good. So, using Tarot in your practice for divination, for spellwork, for meditation, fabulous. We also really like to do three-card pulls or one-card pulls. You see a lot online, people tend to do three-card pulls. Well, I'm here to tell you, Tarot spreads are where it's at. Three cards is going to give you a surface answer. You've got past, present, future. That's about it.

Chelle: I feel like, I feel like a three-card spread, and, you know, circling back to birthday week, I'm aging myself here, but I feel like a three-card spread is like back in in the '80s when you would be wherever, at a school function, your friend's house, and you'd call your mom collect, and they'd like state your name, and you'd be like, "Pick me up at 8:00!" You know, the collect call thing. I feel like a three-card spread is like a collect call.

Laylla: Yeah, you're trying to fit a lot of information into a very short space.

Chelle: Right, right, right. And and if you want an in-depth answer, you need a spread.

Laylla: Yeah. Three cards is great for journaling. It's great for kind of giving you a general idea.

Chelle: It's great for like yes/no type questions and things like that. But if you're looking for answers, you're only getting a part of the story with three cards.

Laylla: Yeah. And so, we really like spreads.

Chelle: More is better, more is better.

Laylla: Yeah, more is better. I think yours last year had 49 cards in it for your birthday spread.

Chelle: Well, I was 49, I needed a 49 spread.

Laylla: That's right.

Chelle: I was not doing a 50 spread this year, by the way, folks.

Laylla: But we do want to talk about a little bit about how to create a Tarot spread. Why is a Tarot spread good? And in my opinion, I think Tarot spreads are really great to get clarity, to get a lot of information, because each of the positions in that spread is like a, it's like a part of the story.

Chelle: Right. It's like reading a book. You have a start, a middle, and an end, and you have to read the story, like you'd read a book.

Laylla: The positions of the cards mean something. and that helps you to tell the story. And so that's how you can create spreads if you can't find one that fits what you need. If you know the symbology of the positions, not only will it help you read spreads better, but it will help you to create spreads if you need to make one for your specific situation.

Chelle: Now, I have actually been creating spreads for a very long time. And how it really started was, I don't know who created it, no disrespect intended, but I am so over that Celtic Cross spread, and I was over it 20 years ago. You know, every deck you bought, every book you read, kind of focused on that Celtic Cross, you know? And I felt like it wasn't really suiting how I wanted to read. You know what I mean?

Laylla: Mhm.

Chelle: And I was just like, "Well, I can just say if I put a card here, it symbolizes this, and put a card here, and it symbolizes this, and then shuffle it up and lay them down and see what cards ended up in the spots I said that for."

Laylla: The Celtic Cross has each position means something. If you know symbology, it makes a lot of sense. So, cards to the left typically are things in the past. Cards in the center tend to be present.

Chelle: Right now.

Laylla: Cards to the right tend to be the future. Cards on the bottom is very often things that are foundational. It can be earthy, it can be physical. Cards above you are usually dreams and goals. They can be ideas and thoughts. Again, kind of makes sense, you know? Bottom is your feet in the earth.

Chelle: Your foundation, your dreams, where you're at, where you've been, where you're going.

Laylla: Cards that cross you or cards that are in the way, again, like for like, they're obstacles. They're things that are literally crossing you or crossing your path or blocking your goal. So, these positions tell a generic story. These positions give you more information when you put cards into them. My very first spread that I created was also because I was working with the Celtic Cross all the time, and I was finding that it just wasn't giving me everything that I needed.

Chelle: It has its uses.

Laylla: Yeah, it's in every single book because it has everything. It's set up with a framework to be able to answer any question that you have. The positions in the Celtic Cross give you the outline of your answer, and the cards that you pull basically fill in the details. As good as the Celtic Cross is, though, there's no such thing as one generic outline that will work to answer every question.

Chelle: It doesn't always suit the need of why you're doing the reading.

Laylla: Right. So, the very first spread that I created was an add-on to the Celtic Cross because as I was doing readings for people, I found very often I needed to draw more cards to get the rest of the information. And so, I created a half-moon spread that I did in addition to the Celtic Cross with every single reading that I did. And basically, that was six cards in a an upside-down crescent, two rising, one at the top, two falling, and then one at the bottom underneath the crescent. I'll put a picture up.

Chelle: Now, I I found, especially doing public readings, that the Celtic Cross didn't fit the message, if that makes sense. You know, when you're when you're reading professionally and you start laying down cards, I know for you and I, there is also kind of that that little voice that you're talking to, you know, that psychic thing.

Laylla: Mhm.

Chelle: That medium thing. You know, you you almost are hearing you're hearing part of the message as I'm seeing it in the cards.

Laylla: Yes. For me, it's channeling straight into the back of my head.

Chelle: And sometimes that message doesn't fit the Celtic Cross. And I found myself back in the day, I I'd, you know, they'd hand me back the cards after shuffling, and right when I would start that spread, I'm like, "No, no, no, no, no." And I would just start laying them down, maybe not knowing a I don't want to say making a spread up on the fly, but kind of, almost like spirit saying, "No, I want these cards to be like this, and I want the story to be told in this manner." And that was really kind of what started me with creating my own spreads. You make a spread based on the situation, the mood, the message. You know what I mean?

Laylla: And that's exactly how it started for me, was I needed a little extra out of that Celtic Cross.

Chelle: And the other thing I wanted to add is sometimes I use a significator, sometimes I don't. It's almost like the cards will tell me if I need to put a significator card down, whether it be for me or someone else I'm reading for. And sometimes it just doesn't fit.

Laylla: Yeah. When when I first learned tarot, I was told you had to. You had to pick a significator, and it had to be one of the court cards.

Chelle: God, I hate rules.

Laylla: Yeah, I thought that was a dumb rule. And it didn't always fit. It didn't always fit. So, I I stopped using it. Um, it it just didn't really work. The only time I use significators is if I want to if I have a certain intent. There are times when I'm like, "All right, I have this specific intent for this reading, so I want to put this card down as a significator to make sure that this reading starts where I want it to."

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: But other than that, I almost never use a significator. Not anymore. I used to all the time.

Chelle: I do randomly here and there. I feel like the deck will tell me if I need to.

Laylla: You read very psychically. There's a lot of different ways to read tarot. You can read tarot straight from the book or from memorization.

Chelle: Which is absolutely fine, by the way.

Laylla: Yes, and use that as a way to get in touch with your subconscious, as a way to work with yourself, as a way to grasp ideas and thoughts that you might not have otherwise come in contact with. It's also just an excellent way to do journal work.

Chelle: Do your tarot journaling.

Laylla: I know, it's good for you. Do it.

Chelle: Actually, I do I do tarot journal, I'm not going to lie.

Laylla: You can also read tarot very psychically, very organically. You don't even need to memorize the cards. You can just pull the cards out, and whatever psychic impression comes to you, whatever feeling, say that, write it down, work with that. Are you going to get it wrong sometimes? Yes. Are you going to get it right sometimes? Yes. But the idea is to work with that thought flow, to work with those ideas, to work with that magic, that energy as it's coming, and you'll get better and better at it. So, you can go from strictly rules and strictly what the cards mean all the way to using your own psychic ability to go wherever it wants to go, and everything in between.

Chelle: And you know, that kind of circles back to my my love of different decks because, I mean, and I know you know this, sometimes it's almost like with with certain decks, the images like jump off the card and start talking to you. And like, meaning aside, you know, like I know these meanings like the back of my hand, but sometimes the cards tell me what they mean, not what tradition tells me they mean.

Laylla: And I think that's perfectly valid. I think that's fabulous. And that's really hard to do well, to be honest.

Chelle: Like everything else, my opinion is practice makes perfect.

Laylla: Yeah. Yeah, and and doing your tarot pulls daily and working with tarot and working with your own intuition is really going to help you to do that. I didn't want to get too far away from tarot spreads, though, because you have come up with a tarot spread in honor of World Tarot Day. So, before we get too far away from talking about tarot spreads, why don't you tell us a little bit about this tarot spread that you created for World Tarot Day?

Chelle: I feel like last year, I kind of made it all about me and did my birthday age spread and and suggested to folks that on their birthday, do a spread that was in relation to their age, I guess, that they were turning to kind of give you a a look at the year ahead. And if you go back on our Instagram and Facebook, you can see a picture and kind of some details on that spread from last year. But this year, I wanted to do something a little different that wasn't focused on age, birthdays, another year trudging by. This year, I went a little different, and I don't know if it was the warm streak we had in here in the Northeast for a few weeks, which, by the way, is gone, or if it was the dandelions that are everywhere, but I was sitting outside one day, and all of a sudden, I got an idea for a spread. And the name of the spread came before the actual body of it and and such, and it's Flowers of May - Where Will I Bloom. And me personally, I am trying to make some changes in my life and and trying to kind of switch gears and go in a different direction. And that was kind of my thought, you know, all these flowers are blooming, where am I blooming? You know, being a May baby, you know, May is kind of like my I feel like everybody has their own like reset month of the year. And you know, a lot of people try to do January, "Oh, it's a new year, reset." For me, my reset has always been like my birthday month. And so, I wanted to kind of do a reading that is like, "Okay, so I know change is coming, I want change to come, where do I bloom?" Me, Shell, the beautiful Shell flower that I am, where where is Shell blooming? And that was kind of where the idea of the spread came. When you are looking to either validate choices or validate directions that you're looking at, you need to maybe have some insight on where will you bloom.

Laylla: I love that. Now, you've shown me the outline.

Chelle: Yep.

Laylla: And I admit that when the first picture you showed me, I thought was entirely a different thing.

Chelle: Only because I outlined it with a marker.

Laylla: Yeah, and I am a 12-year-old boy at heart. Um, but I love this spread, and it and all the positions follow exactly what we were just talking about with, you know, positions have meaning. So, I I really love this spread for that. So, let's go over your spread a little bit, and if you're listening, don't worry, we will definitely put this up on our social media. You'll be able to follow along there.

Chelle: Now, you know, obviously, Flowers of May - Where Do I Bloom, I wanted the spread to kind of look like a flower. And you know, my artistic ability is lacking at best. So, my sweet darling love and I, you always got to bring in some big guns for help with design, I asked him, "How can I lay out 10 cards?" I don't know what my thing is, I like anywhere between 8 and 10 cards.

Laylla: I do too. Back to the beginning when we said three cards just isn't enough. I like five to 10, really.

Chelle: I I generally stick with 8 to 10, although last year was overkill. I think I had like 18 cards in it.

Laylla: Hey, yearly spreads is a lot of cards.

Chelle: So, I was like, "You know, hey, I'm I'm trying to come up with this spread, and I want it to kind of look like a flower." And actually, in the end, it actually came out looking like a dandelion, even though you, in your 12-year-old boy self, thought it was something different when it was outlined.

Laylla: Oh, yeah. Show people the picture you first sent me and see what they say. We'll put it up on the Facebook. I will twist her arm and make her.

Chelle: You know, I should I should just send it to Helen Jojo and get her opinion first. Um, anywho, so I started off with a stem. If you are a flower and you are going to bloom, you have to start out with that base, that stem, that foundation. And so, I made a little stem, and then a little flower of cards above it. I like to start this particular spread at the bottom, at your foundation. So, the very bottom card, which would be card number one, is the root, the foundation, followed by the next card, which would be what holds us up, what motivates us, followed by what sustains you. And and those are kind of the roots of of you and what you embody in your change and your growth and how you're going to move forward. It all comes down to the stem and the roots, what's holding you together.

Laylla: And in this picture, those three cards go straight up, just like the stem of a flower.

Chelle: Yep.

Laylla: And the stem of a flower has the roots on one end, it sustains the plant, it holds it up, and it provides nourishment. So, all of those things Shell captured in those three positions, and that's exactly what the stem of a flower does.

Chelle: Now, for the the top portion, so I basically have three cards as my stem. The top portion, the flower part, I have seven cards. And I kind of did this part like in a in a traditional left-to-right manner. So, starting on far on the far left, I have my first card, what's holding me back? Because, you know, I'm a traditionalist even though I don't like rules and don't like to admit it, but I do kind of get that what is on the left is where you've been and what got you there, and what is on the right is kind of where you're headed.

Laylla: Yep.

Chelle: So, on the left, I have starting with what is holding you back? You know, what is what is your obstacles? And then that is followed by what steps do you need to take to take action? Sometimes you need a card to kick you in the ass, you know? And that is followed by your truth. Sometimes that's a difficult pill to swallow, and sometimes it's hard for you to come to grips with your own truth, and you need the cards to tell you and be like, "You know what it is, admit it."

Laylla: Mhm. And again, those three cards, like you said, are on the left. And so, what's holding you back is very often things from your past, things that you think about, things that have held you back before. So, that's the very first card in the kind of left past type position. And then, what steps do you need to take? Planning.

Chelle: Sometimes the anxiety of what to do next holds people back. That's right. That's why I felt that that was a good card to have in that left position because, you know, what steps do you need to take, you need to get over the hump and do it, man.

Laylla: Right. And planning has to happen first. Planning is one of the first things that you need to do. So, perfect. And then, the next card is your truth. And your truth, again, is something also that you have carried with you for a while. This is not something that you're just thinking of now. Your truth is something that has been part of you for a bit, from your past. So, having that in that past position also makes sense.

Chelle: And and having that is the the third card over made sense to me because, you know, what your truth is, not only, yeah, your your foundation was built on your truth, but your truth is always also what carries you forward.

Laylla: Yes, I love that. I love that. Exactly, symbology of position.

Chelle: So, that fourth card, you know, where do you where do you draw your energy from, that is getting you to the the next phase. That's almost like that bridge between where you were and where you're going.

Laylla: Oh, I like that. I like that.

Chelle: You know what I mean?

Laylla: Mhm, it's perfect.

Chelle: What are you feeding yourself that is getting you from point A to point B?

Laylla: And not only is that card directly in the middle of the three past and the three future cards, it's also directly on top of the stem. So, that fits.

Chelle: It almost looks like the top of the stem, yeah.

Laylla: Right. And the stem is what feeds the plant. So, that draws up the energy. So, again, symbology of position, it perfectly fits.

Chelle: Now, starting to continue over to the right, my next card, what are you drawing into your life? Sometimes you want all these wonderful things, but you keep consuming your life with bullshit. You know what I mean? I mean, what are you drawing into your life? Are you drawing in the things you want, or are you drawing in bullshit and then bitching about it? You know what I mean?

Laylla: Mhm. We do tend to create a lot of our reality. Not all of it, but a lot of it is created by our own desires and certainly our own actions and thoughts. So, what are you drawing into your life? What are you bringing in in the what's going to happen in the future for you? What are you creating for the future?

Chelle: Now, my next card, what to nurture? And I think this is important because, especially with people like you and I, we're the last people that are going to nurture ourselves. You know, we're nurturing everybody else, our kids, our our partners, our family, our friends, and we we don't think of us. And sometimes you need to take a step back. What do I need to do to get myself from point A to point B? What do I need to nurture? What do I need to cultivate? You know what I mean? And I think you start, you know, you you get over to that right side, what are you drawing in, and what are you nurturing? Are you drawing in bullshit and then nurturing bullshit, or are you drawing in positivity and and motivation and and all those good things so that you are nurturing all those good things?

Laylla: Energy flows where our direction or attention goes.

Chelle: Exactly. Positive attracts positive, negative attracts negative.

Laylla: What are we giving our attention to? And we understand that you don't have control over everything, but what are you giving your energy to? What are you nurturing?

Chelle: Right. And and I think as far when you talk about energy, I think that sometimes you can control more than you think by the energy you put into it.

Laylla: And then, the last card also fits with that things coming to you in the future theme.

Chelle: It does, and it also kind of, you know, circles back to to what I named this spread. What is about to blossom for you?

Laylla: I love that.

Chelle: What is your flower that's getting ready to bloom?

Laylla: And all of those are future positions, and they fit perfectly with that. Now, I'm going to modify it a little because you do this to me all the time, and I told you. One of the things that I saw when you first showed this to me, and we talked about it being a dandy lion, was I also see that arc of the flower can be the dandelion head, either in full yellow bloom, or it also looks to me like the dandelion puff balls. So, I added one last card to this spread, above the whole thing, on the right-hand side, just off-center, to be that one dandelion seed puff that's blowing in the wind, and that's your wish. What is your wish for the future? What wish is about to come true for you, or what is your deepest wish that you hope to come true? And that's what that card symbolizes. So, that's the 11th optional position.

Chelle: Damn, you're good.

Laylla: We we're good. This is great. This is this is why we are us. This is why we work.

Chelle: We work so good together.

Laylla: We do. I love this spread, and I love that each position has such beautiful symbology that works together to tell a whole story. Your idea was, where will I bloom? You needed to know, you know, where am I going to grow? Shit's rocky here, and I need to be the fucking gorgeous flower that I am. Where am I going to bloom? So, you created a spread that looks like a flower to match that symbology, to match that energy. Does it need to look like a flower? Yes, it absolutely fucking does. Because that's part of the story. That's part of the energy. When you look at this spread and you see the flower, you think blooming, you think growing, and that's what this is about. And so again, not just the symbology of each position, but the whole overarching spread has meaning and lends that meaning to the reading.

Chelle: And that's why it's very important to have the first card you lay down be the bottom of that stem because you're starting with your foundation. What what is and was your foundation that is getting you to the point that you are to get you to the point where you want to be?

Laylla: Right. And you have to grow from that basis. So this is perfect and this is a beautiful example of why tarot spreads are kind of important and why the positions have meaning.

Chelle: And this is also an example of why the Celtic Cross spread wouldn't work for me for this particular thing.

Laylla: Right. Right. Because it has its place, but it's so generic. And so being able to create something and know why you're putting things in each position makes sense. Yes, you can just lay cards out. Yes, you can just do three cards or you can just start pulling cards and telling a story with them. Absolutely works, perfectly valid. But having this foundation, this basis, can make it a little easier for some people and can really give you such rich nuance to your readings.

Chelle: Now, I really think it would be funny and I think I'm actually going to do this. First of all, I'm just going to interject, make a left turn here. We all know I love left turns. Laylla and I have been remiss on social media. We understand. So bad. So bad. Life has been life and we're getting there. But I I really want to post this picture. Laylla can see it right now, but it's like on a piece of paper, I hand drew little boxes. Each box is a tarot card. And in like randomly drawing out the meanings, but I do actually want to post this because I want to give people an idea of you can just come up with a spread on a napkin or a piece of paper and if it works for you, rock it.

Laylla: Yeah. And that's really the important thing is you have to try these. And okay, I'm going to take a slight left turn as well. Do you remember when I made you watch Agatha All Along?

Chelle: I do. And I wish that I watched the whole thing, but I was having issues with Disney Plus. Different episode.

Laylla: That's all right. But there was a tarot spread that was done and I watched and watched and watched it to find each position and what they said each position meant and tried it. And it didn't work.

Chelle: Was it your spread? That's why. It wasn't your spread.

Laylla: It's not that it wasn't my spread. I think it was more that whoever put the spread together didn't exactly follow position symbology, so it it just didn't work. Like there was a card crossing you, but that was supposed to be the outcome. And it felt off.

Chelle: Oh, yes.

Laylla: The the last card was crossing the main card and that was supposed to be the outcome. But why would your outcome be crossing you or against you?

Chelle: You're already taking it in a doom and gloom direction right from the get-go with just the spread outline.

Laylla: Exactly. So when I tried the spread, it just felt off. So I worked with it. I believe Helen Jojo actually worked with it as well. Love Helen, by the way. Hey, Helen.

Chelle: Love you, Helen.

Laylla: Helen and I worked with it a little bit. I showed a version, she showed a version, and we kind of made it work. But if those symbols, if those positions don't exactly fit your symbology or symbology as it makes sense to you, then the spread won't work. So you have to try them. After you create this, you have to kind of try it. See if it flows.

Chelle: Speaking of try it, I got a little project for y'all. I would be so thrilled if some of you all took a little bit of time with your tarot decks and just organically create a spread. But what would thrill me more than anything in life is if you share that with Laylla and I because you got it in you, folks. You just you just need to realize that you too can create your own tarot spread that suits your need.

Laylla: My wonderful, amazing bestie's birthday is coming up in mere weeks. The 31st. The 31st of May is her wonderful day. And not only should you send her cards to our PO box because she would love them and it would make her very happy, but you should also create a tarot spread and post it on our Facebook discussion board group or on the Reddit Back on the Broomstick discussion subreddit if you want to, or email it to us. We would love to see them. But please, create a spread for whatever reason or in honor of our lovely Chelle and send it.

Chelle: Oh my god, I have a great idea.

Laylla: What's that?

Chelle: So, you know how I always do I always do readings for other people. You do readings for me on occasion and I love you for it. But, you know what would be freaking fabulous?

Laylla: What's that?

Chelle: If we had a listener or 50 who created a spread and did a little mini reading for me and sent it to us.

Laylla: Actually.

Chelle: Ooh, I see an idea in that head.

Laylla: Well, if you guys all create spreads in honor of Chelle, Chelle will pick her favorite and I will do a tarot reading with your spread and we'll post it.

Chelle: Ooh. That's like double excellent.

Laylla: Create some tarot spreads in honor of Chelle, send them to us, Chelle will pick her favorite, and I'll do a birthday reading for you.

Chelle: Now, I want you to send them to backonthebroomstick@gmail.com because that's the email that Laylla checks and she's going to show me the spreads without telling me who sent them so that I show no favoritism.

Laylla: That's perfect. Send in your spreads in honor of Chelle. Make sure you tell us what each position means and we'll pick our favorites. But yeah, just create spreads because they're a lot of fun and then try them afterwards. So we hope you all enjoy the upcoming World Tarot Day on Sunday, May 25th. And of course, we hope you all celebrate in lots of wonderful cannabis and tarot and witchy ways on our lovely Chelle's birthday on May 31st.

Chelle: I love Gemini season more than anything. Both of me do.

Laylla: Ha ha. Ha ha ha. So funny. Oh, all right. So thank you all so much. Let us know what your favorite tarot decks are. Let us know what your favorite tarot spreads are and how you use tarot in unusual and different ways. Send it to backonthebroomstick@gmail.com. Send us some cards, send us some love, send us some things to review, whatever you like, to our PO box. The information is in the show description. Check out our Instagram, our Facebook, our Reddit. Well, it's not our Reddit, but the people's Reddit.

Chelle: And Laylla and I promise now that things are settling down in our lives, we are going to be back on the saddle with the social media thing. If you have reached out to us and we haven't responded yet, I swear to everything I hold dear that you will get a response from us in the next couple of weeks.

Laylla: We keep saying that. One of these days, it'll be true.

Chelle: I've kept up to my end of the deal. Every time I've said it, I've done it. But I'm I'm behind again. I'm If you've if you've sent us a message, we'll get back to you. I promise. We love you.

Laylla: We do love you. And thank you to all of our benefactors. You guys are freaking amazing. We absolutely love you all. Thank you so so much. Thank you all for listening. We're going to go have a cup of tea and figure out some of these tarot spreads.

Chelle: I want everybody to stay wise, stay wicked, and what else, Laylla?

Laylla: Have a deck of tarot cards on you in case of emergencies at all times. And keep it witchy.
