Laylla: Welcome to Back on the Broomstick, a modern witches' spoken word grimoire, where two witchy friends from way back are reconnecting to their pagan roots after a long period of mundanity. We're rewalking the path of the wise and trying out all the latest spells, rituals, and magical theory in today's witchcraft and pagan practices. So grab your wand and your incense, your cauldron and your crystals, and join us as we get back on the broomstick.

Laylla: Hi, and welcome to Back on the Broomstick. I'm Laylla, and on this episode, we're talking tarot wisdom and earth medicine with author, artist, and mystic Lalania Simone.

Chelle: And I'm Chelle, and we are so excited to welcome you back, Lalania. We had such a great time the last time we talked about your amazing Cosmic Seed Tarot. Today, we have a new deck, and we are super excited. This is the Wise Earth Medicine Tarot, and we've got a lot to talk about. So before we jump in, just again, I know we've had you before, but tell the listeners a little bit about who you are and what you do.

Lalania: Awesome. Well, thank you. My name is Lalania Simone. I am so grateful to be back with you two. And yes, I have been very busy since we've last connected. And my favorite to-date deck is now out in the world, and it's so exciting to be able to talk about it and start to see it on socials and people starting to make videos, and it makes me so, so happy. This is my current favorite, but you know, the next one might be my favorite once I print it.

Chelle: You said you've been a little busy since we last spoke. Two decks? That's more than a little busy. You are, you are putting out awesome work, and you actually have a second deck that you mentioned that just got released off Kickstarter about a month ago. Just give us the name of that real quick.

Lalania: That is the Myth Weaver, and that was just, that campaign just completed on Kickstarter the first week of March.

Laylla: Congratulations.

Lalania: And that will be coming into the world closer to the end of this year because I'm in the process of getting the book written. And that, that deck is about mythology and tying that, world mythology and obscure mythologies and tying those to the cards. And so it's going to have a very comprehensive book. And so that's the process I'm in right now.

Laylla: I love that. Now, I do love your books in each of your decks that we have, the Cosmic Seed and now in the Wise Earth Medicine Tarot. Your books are lovely. They have full-color pictures of each of the cards. Also, in your previous deck, you included a tarot spread that you created in each of these books. When we spoke to you before, we had talked about the spiritual growth tarot spread. And while we were talking, you said that you added two cards to the bottom of that to be like the root. And that really added a lot of depth to the tarot spread, and our listeners loved it. We sent that out so people could see that. Now, can you talk to us a little bit about coming up with tarot spreads and how you like to use them, you know, for yourself?

Lalania: Yeah, so that is my go-to spread. If I'm reading for anybody, and I'm planning on giving a semi-lengthy reading, I will use that one because I feel like it goes in. And I do create spreads kind of just as needed, depending on what someone is kind of looking for and wanting to give them the best, the best reading that I can, the best information that I can, I will kind of create a reading for them. But generally, I stay with that one. I also have a workbook out. I don't have it in the world right now. I'm reprinting it for my Kickstarter people. But it's a workbook that is just spreads, and it has got 13 spreads in it, and you can fill in all the blanks, and it's really a fun little cool tool.

Chelle: I will be looking forward to that one for sure.

Lalania: Once I get it in print again, I'll send them to you.

Laylla: I like how you mentioned that you kind of create them as you work with someone. And I like that, too, intuitive tarot spreads. You know, you kind of have positions that mean something to you, like in your case, the spiritual growth spread, and then you expand on that as you work with someone as the cards come out. They start to kind of weave a story together. Do you find that kind of works for you that way?

Lalania: Yes. And spreads, I work with, like, I know a lot of people who don't work with spreads, and they'll just pull cards.

Laylla: Right.

Lalania: And just read off the cuff. I need spreads.

Laylla: Yes. I like the structure.

Lalania: I kind of have to have those positions, yeah.

Laylla: It adds so much depth, I think.

Chelle: Yeah, you need that map of how that story goes, I think. Now, how would you tell someone to trust themselves or to, to allow that story to flow? Because I find that some people, when they put the cards down, whether intuitively or whether they're following a map with a spread, sometimes they, they falter on weaving the story or on putting that together. Do you have any advice to help someone kind of let go and to find that rhythm to help them find that story in the cards?

Lalania: I feel like my specialty really is the artistic side of tarot. I'm very logic-minded. And so it was really important for me to, to learn all of the meanings to be able to feel like I'm an effective tarot card reader because the intuitive aspect of it is a little choppy for me. So, another thing that I created was a, a flashcard deck to learn all the meanings of the cards, just all the keywords for the basic deck. So, things like that are things, is something that I, I kind of need to have that basic understanding. But it's so beautiful to watch people who can just look at the images and gloom a meaning and an interpretation and kind of weave everything together. For me, I have to kind of have a basic understanding of what the, the actual meanings are. And then if I can look at everything together, I can start to pull the threads, and I can start to go outside of those meanings and intuit. But I do have to have that foundational kind of understanding, and that's just the way I, I work.

Laylla: I love having the foundation of the spread and the meanings of the positions, same thing with the cards, but then being able to build on that. Use that as your solid foundation and then kind of build up from it, like a cake, I guess. It's nicer that way.

Chelle: I also feel that, depending on who you are, different artwork is going to speak to you differently. And as a person who owns a gazillion tarot decks, I've seen all kinds of tarot art. And some of it, even after doing readings for 30 years, I'm just like, "I, yeah, no, this isn't working for me." And then other cards, like your Cosmic Seed deck, I feel like that is like, that's speaking to my soul. And, you know, the pictures on the cards almost jump out at me, whereas I can't say that about a lot of decks. So I think some of that also comes down to connecting with your cards visually. If you are very much into, say, all things Celtic and Celtic artwork and stuff, you know, maybe a Native American deck isn't going to speak to you. You know, so I think some of it is, and that's how I started my collection of tarot decks 30 years ago was I was looking for the right artwork to speak to me.

Lalania: Yeah. I'm the same. I am very drawn into the, the visual experience of the deck. And it doesn't necessarily matter what the book says. I may not love the, the writing style of the artist of the deck, but if I love the, the visuals, then it's a good fit. With oracle, on the other hand, I need both the visual and the writing to kind of be fantastic.

Laylla: Yeah. I'm glad you mentioned oracle decks and tarot because I have a confession. When I first opened this deck, I fell in love with the art, and I told Chelle I didn't like it as a tarot deck.

Lalania: That's okay.

Laylla: I changed my mind. Because I'm looking at it and I'm like, "These images are too different." My first instinct was shock. This isn't the King of Wands. This isn't the Page of Swords. Like, what's going on here? And it took me a back, and I'm like, "All right, hold on. These are so gorgeous. I'm going to work with this for a minute because I can't not." The pictures absolutely, Lalania, drew me in so much. I love them. So I gave it a second chance, and now I love it. But I was like, "This is an oracle deck. This is like an oracle tarot deck." And then I read that you said that, right, in the guidebook. I'm like, "Oh, she did it on purpose. I get it now." And it was really the, um, it was the Devil card that got me. The Devil card. In this card, okay, so this deck is entirely animals and plants. They're all, the cards are beautifully themed. You've got like the Moon, and you've got patterns. Some have herbs, some have flowers, some have animals, some have both. But the Devil card is poppies. How perfect is that? That is so amazingly perfect for the Devil card. I, I had to give it a second chance and give it a deeper look. And looking at it like an oracle deck, sorry to, I'm going to wrap up this long story here, because I know the meanings of the cards, and you do put keywords on the bottom, a lot like a, a lot like an oracle deck would. So that can kind of help you if you're not super familiar and you usually rely on the pictures because these pictures are different, but that gives it a deeper meaning to me. And it allows me to go different places than a traditional tarot deck would, much like an oracle deck does. So as soon as I let go of my need for it to be like a traditional Rider-Waite-Smith deck and let it be a little more oracle-y, I had so much fun and so much insight reading these cards. So I'm glad I gave it a second chance.

Lalania: That was kind of the feeling. I really wanted to make it accessible to people who, because I, I have a metaphysical shop. I sell decks to people every day, and people always ask me the difference between oracle and tarot. And often, if they're brand new, they end up with the oracle. And it's because of the complexity of the tarot. And so my thought was, if I could make it kind of cross over, then people could get the experience of what it, of using the easier type of deck and still kind of subconsciously start to absorb this information. And that's why I also wanted the keywords on there because you don't get that instant understanding just from, you know, whatever's happening on the card. You still have access to that information. And the medicine, of course, of each, meaning of each card brings so much, so much depth to the card itself, to the meaning of the card. And it is like the oracle side of it. Yeah, it's definitely, I guess I just don't make things in the normal way.

Laylla: And that's good, I think, as particularly where this is concerned. And like, if you didn't know what the Devil card was and you saw poppies, that's addiction, but it's beauty.

Lalania: It'll make you sleep.

Laylla: Yeah, but it, but it's also seductive. It's that thing that can be bad for you, but you still kind of wanted, you know, and people can understand that with poppies, maybe, and and it might make that, that meaning hit home a little bit more for them than the traditional imagery might.

Chelle: I, I kind of took it at a different angle than Laylla because, I'll be honest with you, the oracle thing went right over my head when I first got the deck. And, and it actually took Laylla to point it out to me. I'm like, "Oh, wow, yeah, you're right." So I kind of went at it right as a tarot deck. I just go right to the deck without the book, generally. So I didn't really see the oracle side of it until Laylla pointed it out. But, you know what the Ten of Cups is, you know what the, what the Strength card means. I've read tarot enough over the years that, you know, you just tell me a card, and I've already got a visual of, you know, so when I see things like, I'm going to have to talk about this card for a minute, Ten of Wind, when I equate that to a traditional, you know, a traditional suit, I know what this card means, aside from the visual, but the visual helps. I saw these as a way to connect also with the animal spirit and, and in a way to kind of get an in-depth, a more in-depth understanding of the animism of it. For me personally, I don't know what's it been, Lalania, maybe eight, nine months, I have just had owls around me like nobody's business. Like literally. Like, you know, I lived in the woods my whole life, never saw an owl ever. I move outside of Boston, I got this damn owl following me around outside. So I've all of a sudden in the last few months had this thing with owls. I kind of looked at these as a way to get a more in-depth understanding of animal spirit. You know, some of these animals are also animals that I'm not exposed to. What if I am trying to connect with my animal spirit or, or a familiar such? I look at these as a way to also do that, to kind of connect with the different, you know, "I want to feel zebra energy, so Knight of Fire." I'm going to connect the concept of what I know about that card and kind of create in my mind, I guess, my thoughts on how's that going to connect to that particular animal. Or Ten of Earth, what does that have to do with a kangaroo, and how am I going to learn more about the spirit of a kangaroo through knowing that you've associated it with that particular card? You know what I'm saying? I'm also looking at it as a way to kind of connect with 78 different plant and animal spirits.

Lalania: Beautiful. Yes, it's an opportunity in a way to, to learn about the wisdom from the earth. And there's so much, and there are so many different, I mean, indigenous cultures all over the world, and when I say that, I mean all people are indigenous to the earth. And those cultures, the ancient cultures especially, very much respected the, the messages that they received from the presence and watching the animals and the ways that they behaved amongst each other. And they derived meaning from that and, you know, associated it with themselves in all these different ways and, and took them as omens. And so it felt like a beautiful way to bring that into the world.

Laylla: And, and I love how you did that with the medicine portion of each card. You mentioned the medicine that that plant or animal can bring to you. And so, you know, a lot of us do a daily card pull or three-card pull or, or we'll ask questions when we need to and journal it, hopefully. But this gives it one more level of the medicine that that can bring you. Like, the Queen of Wind is the bee. You know I love bees.

Lalania: You do.

Laylla: And this medicine says that, "Be careful not to get too overstimulated." You know, it can give you a warning or an idea of where to look. You know, this says to, "Be sure to redirect your mental energy and rest your mind when needed." So it gives, you know, good advice, good medicine, good, good ideas that you can learn from these creatures. Can you tell us a little bit about animism in your life or how you might work with these cards to work with animals?

Lalania: So we, around here where I am, my family and, we live in Aurora, Colorado. And we are blessed to be right a block away from a creek. And we're still in the city, but there's a creek that goes through the city, and they were smart enough to make it a park and to make it so that it had some nature, kind of undisturbed nature around it. There's trails, and it's just a little section. But we get so much wildlife. We have beavers, and deer show up every once in a while, and muskrats, and unexpected things, snakes, frogs, all the things that could be around here in, where we are in, in Colorado. So we're not getting mountain spirits necessarily, but you might go there and see an egret randomly. And, if you haven't seen that in a while, you might, you know, we'd come home and we'd pick up the book. We have a really great book. It's called Animal Speaks. And it's an old book, and it has a lot of these different beautiful animal messages, totems. Or we'll go online if it's just happens to not be in that book. Or maybe you have a dream, and, you know, what is, "I had this random dream, and there was a baby turtle in it." And, you know, want to know what is the, what is the energy from this particular animal trying to say to me? So, you know, as I mentioned, indigenous cultures have been doing this forever. It's an opportunity for us to tap into the earth and to Mother Nature and to, you know, what I call Great Mother, and hear the, the wisdom from our spiritual selves and our higher self. And just like we use the tarot, it's such a beautiful way to just kind of incorporate what we're seeing in the world, whether it's a bee or a, you know, we have hawks and blue jays and things around here, and it's like, "Oh, what is, what's the blue jay energy about today?" So, I really love that. I love being able to touch, touch nature in that way.

Chelle: But I also think, even if you use these individually, you can take a card of, say, the hawk and meditate with that card and spend time with that card and start to connect with the energy of the hawk through that, that card.

Lalania: Absolutely.

Laylla: Yeah. And kind of a little bit like what both of you were saying, one of the things that I used these cards for was, I'm seeing more bees. I'm seeing more possums running around. I saw...

Chelle: Or everything. It's beautiful.

Laylla: Or everything, exactly. I saw a little fox running around the other day. So some of the animals that I noticed around me, I looked through the deck, I grabbed a few of those cards and pulled them out and had just a, a meditative moment with those cards and just thought about what I've been seeing and just kind of trying to reconnect with my land and with the energies around me. And so that was a very beautiful, just to read what those cards meant, pulled them with purpose and chose them, and they still connected to meanings, things I needed to learn. And, and it was beautiful to do that. So I could see Chelle pulling maybe the owl and maybe some other animal cards that she wanted to work with and seeing how that corresponded to tarot and bringing that into her life magically that way.

Lalania: Yeah, I think it's a, it's, you know, in a place where you may not get animals, right? You're in New York City, and the things you see are dogs and cats and... This is a way to be able to pull a card every morning and connect with animal energy and connect with the earth. And then, you know, the other reason I thought about wanting to bring, bring it through this way, too, is because sometimes people have a hard time connecting with visuals of other people.

Laylla: Yeah.

Lalania: Depending on race or depending on body shape or depending on gender identification...

Laylla: Culture.

Lalania: Yes. And so it's another way to kind of bypass all of those things and still be able to connect with, with the tarot and oracle.

Laylla: Yeah, and I loved how you mentioned, you know, people who live in the city or, you know, there can be a lot of reasons why you might feel disconnected from Mother Earth, why you might feel disconnected from that. And so working with a deck like this that really kind of pulls you outside of yourself and brings you to that natural world, even, you know, even if it is just through the cards, that can really help kind of bring that energy into your life. So I love that.

Chelle: Well, you know, even if you're not in a big huge city like New York or Boston, you know, I've never seen a rhino. You know, it's not from my region, but when I saw that the rhino was the tower, I was like, oh yeah, that makes a whole lot of sense. A whole lot of sense. But then I can almost feel that tower energy when meditating thinking about that rhino. I see how that is absolutely a perfect fit. Or like the hummingbird, I see how that is an absolute perfect fit for the star. It just, some of the ones I'm familiar with, at least on a small level, I'm like, oh yeah, now that I see that she pointed that out, totally makes sense. But then things I'm less familiar with, I'll be honest with you, I don't know what, is that a, is that a beaver?

Lalania: It's an otter.

Chelle: So I'm not familiar with an otter, but I know the Knight of Water. So then I'm like, okay, well let me try to connect, you know, so even if it's not, you can connect with animals that are not local to your region, even if you're not in the big city.

Laylla: Right. And because you know the tarot, when you see those animals, you're automatically going to understand that there's something about that particular card that is part of the energy or the behavior or something for the animal, whether or not you read the book.

Lalania: Right. Right. Because like I said, you know, I just would rather get to know the cards and learn it that way and not make myself feel anxious and have to get out my bifocals. Go get them. You got to read it.

Laylla: It is pretty good. Like Chelle was saying, a lot of these are, they feel obvious. After I started going through it, a lot of them were like, oh, that makes perfect sense.

Lalania: Never thought of that before.

Laylla: You know, or some of them I never thought of before. Were there any animals or any energies that came through and were like, I need to be this card? You know, was there anything that really spoke to you?

Lalania: Um, I think there were, you know, like one of the fun ones that I thought was a unique one was the egg for the, for the Ace of Wind.

Laylla: Oh, the beginning.

Lalania: The beginning, right? Like normally it's a sword. It's that single sword and it's sharp and it has this vibe, right? Whereas the Ace of Wind is these little eggs in a, in a nest and it's the beginning of the suit and it's, it just felt very different.

Chelle: Not as blunt as what we're used to.

Lalania: Exactly. One of the ones that I really, I'm looking at my deck right now, one of the ones that I really loved was the vulture. Um, I had been saving that image from before, um, Tarot of the Cosmic Seed, because I'm an image collector because, you know, a lot of my work is digital collage. Um, and so I do have, you know, you'll see every single card has hand-drawn little, um, white tattoos, little pretty doodles.

Laylla: I love that on the Magician, which is a crow, you have the elemental symbols drawn down his back. I thought that was perfect.

Lalania: Yes. Oh, what was one of my favorites? Oh, I loved, my first one was the elk. The elk was my first creation.

Laylla: Is that the Emperor?

Lalania: The elk was the Emperor.

Laylla: Yeah.

Lalania: Yeah.

Laylla: The Empress is a bear with her cubs. I love that.

Lalania: Yes, I had fun with that one.

Chelle: I like the, uh, silverback for the King of Earth. Oh, yes. If a silverback ain't the king of the earth, I don't know who is.

Laylla: Things that made me think, like the, the bonsai tree for the Hierophant. That made me look at that card. I normally have bad associations with that card. That normally doesn't give me that, it's not, it's not tradition to me so much as the negative aspects of tradition, the, the ties that bind that aren't good, you know, the things that you follow blindly. I know it has more meanings than that, but that's how it tends to show up for me. But seeing the Hierophant as a bonsai tree, you know, that wisdom, that taking your time, that patience, that learning and growing in a beautiful way, it just really made me see that differently. Was there something about choosing these that, did you just go, oh, well, I'm, I'm just going to draw this, or did you ever do any type of ritual or any type of meditation or any type of work to kind of, to come up with an answer, or did they all just come pretty easily and intuitively?

Lalania: Well, it wasn't, some of them came and they, and I just knew like this animal makes, makes sense. Um, others I had to do deep research on.

Chelle: I liked the familiarity of the lion being strength, because even in traditional cards, even Rider-Waite-Smith, you see that lion in strength, and I was like, oh yeah, that's something I know.

Lalania: Yeah, right? So you see the cat or the, yep. I did try to do some of the, you know, super, super obvious ones.

Laylla: Yeah, the vulture for death was beautiful.

Lalania: But one, one of the ones that was interesting for me to find was the hyena. Because I was having a hard time with that one. I was like, okay, I had done so many by that point, and there wasn't tons of, didn't feel like there was tons of animal options left, and I was looking for something, and I was like, okay, something, I need somebody who's skillful, who's masterful at what they do, and isn't already one of these other amazing animals that I've already selected. And so, when the hyena came up, I was like, I kind of felt, do I really want to do the hyena? Because he's, he's also somebody who's going to come up and eat you if he can. But it was so perfect. And this one that I found, this beautiful image that I found, was perfect for the card. And so, sometimes it was surprising what ended up coming through and deciding to, or the decisions that were made around certain cards. Another one was the flamingo. It's one of my favorite cards in the deck. It has, it's one of the only ones that has multiple animals. There's maybe a handful of them that has more than one animal. Oh. But there was something about having these six flamingos for the Six of Wind, um, flying through the sky, and I just, I'm so moved by, by that image.

Laylla: It's beautiful.

Chelle: It sounds like you connected with just as many animals as I did through this deck and, and made those connections with each of those individual spirits.

Lalania: When this deck showed up at my house, I cried.

Chelle: You know, we just talked about the animal aspect of it, but was it more difficult for you to choose plants? Because, you know, we kind of have this notion of animals and animal behavior. You know, you said you were trying to find an animal that, that, when you were looking at the hyena, that spoke to that particular card. Was it more difficult to find the plants that you used? I mean, Laylla said before, the poppy was obvious, but I saw a yellow lily. Did you have to connect with that plant spirit as well, do you feel?

Lalania: Well, some were, some felt obvious, like the, the lotus kind of came through. Of course, the laurel for the Six of Wands or the Six of Fire. Um, those were things that kind of just were like, yeah, this is, makes sense. The rose for the Lovers, right? So some of them were simple, like tying those things in. And others I had to say, okay, it's been a while, I've made a lot of animals, there's quite a few insects in here, but I haven't put, you know, as many plants as I'd like. And so I'd have to kind of stop and think, okay, well, where could a plant go? And because of all the beautiful, um, metaphysical properties through all of the, um, paganism materials that are out there, I was absolutely able to find all those correlations that I needed.

Chelle: I love the back of the deck. When I opened this deck, it has, Laylla knows the name of it, I know it, it has, uh, a plant on the back of each card. And when I opened this, my first thought, and you're going to laugh, Laylla, my first thought was, Laylla. Uh-huh. Laylla happens to have two of these plants in her living room. They're big and obnoxious. And I was like, that reminds me of Laylla's house. Oh, thanks. Big and obnoxious, hey? I'm going to remember that. That plant wants to eat me alive when I'm in your living room, and you know it. It's a monstera. And they are beautiful, and yes, I do have, I do have a couple. But that's okay, we won't talk about them trying to eat Chelle when she comes over.

Laylla: In this deck as well, you also have a tarot layout. This one's a little simpler, and this is the Life Overview Spread, and I like how it's almost in, in a spiral. Starts in the center and moves out in a little bit of a spiral. Is there any way that you like to work with tarot, not just for insight? Do you like to use it as an active magical tool, like to ask for something or manifestation or spell work or anything? Do you, do you like to work with tarot in that way in any way?

Lalania: You know what, I haven't, actually, and that's interesting to think about. Generally, I just use it for readings. Um, I used to read for other people in my shop, and I realized that I prefer not to have to do that. Um, it's a lot of energy to give.

Laylla: Yes, it is. It's a calling, I think.

Lalania: Yes, and I still, you know, I loved it and I, and, and it was fun and I, I still will like do an event. Like sometimes someone will be like, hey, we're doing an event, we need someone who can come in for 4 hours, and then I'll do something like that. But, um, I like to just read for myself or for someone close and take my time and go and read the book and think about what I, what I'm thinking it might mean and go back and forth and really kind of just take my time with the reading, and I generally just use, use, use it with spreads. But I have seen some really cool books where people are using it for all these different ways. Pathworking, I saw a book about that. Um, I have seen that there's all these unusual magical ways to use tarot, and I don't know much about them, but I think I'd be interested in learning more.

Laylla: I love how it is such a beautiful tool for yourself psychologically. It's, it's wonderful to get ideas about the future and to talk, you know, opens conversation. It, I think it's just such an amazing tool for anybody to have. So thank you for creating this one. As an animist myself, I love the ties to the earth and the ties to the animals and the animal energies. So it's, it's a fabulous deck. So thank you.

Lalania: Thank you.

Chelle: And that just makes me more excited to see your next deck.

Laylla: Do you have any other things coming up, any places where people can find you or find your shop?

Lalania: Well, um, the, the Myth Weaver is still available as a late pledge option. And so for anyone who's interested in checking that out, you can go to Kickstarter and just search Myth Weaver. Um, that is what I have that's taking, going to be taking my focus for the next few months, and I'm excited to get that out, like I said, at the end of the year. I already am starting to have images bubble up in my head around the next following deck, but I'm going to, um, just kind of see, you know, sometimes I think I know what's going to happen and then it's a year later and it's something completely different. So, so we'll see, but I know that this is my life. My life is, I'm also a silversmith and I'm a creator just in general, so I'm always making something, but it's so fulfilling to create tarot and oracle decks. And so I just feel like part of my life's work, and I'll definitely be doing it for some time.

Laylla: We're glad this is your calling, because we love them. So thank you.

Lalania: Thank you.

Laylla: Thank you so much for being with us again, Lalania. We really appreciate you coming back on.

Chelle: And we are going to have to have you back for the next deck. Just remind everybody, where can they find you online and on socials?

Lalania: Yes, I am at @thecosmicseed on Instagram, and you can find my website is cosmicseedstudio.com.

Laylla: Beautiful. Thank you so much. All right, well, we will see you hopefully very soon for your next creation.

Lalania: Thank you.

Laylla: Thank you so much for listening to this episode of Back on the Broomstick. And thank you so much to Lalania Simone for joining us on this episode to talk about tarot magic and earth wisdom, as well as her new deck. If you liked this episode, please give us a like, some stars. It helps other listeners find the show, and it makes Chelle and I cackle like little witches. So until next week, be wise, be wicked, and keep it witchy.
