Laylla: Welcome to Back on the Broomstick, a modern witches' spoken word grimoire, where two witchy friends from way back are reconnecting to their pagan roots after a long period of mundanity. We're rewalking the path of the wise and trying out all the latest spells, rituals, and magical theory in today's witchcraft and pagan practices. So grab your wand and your incense, your cauldron and your crystals, and join us as we get back on the broomstick.

Laylla: Hi, and welcome to Back on the Broomstick. I'm Laylla, and on this episode, we're talking about Litha, the summer holiday, Midsummer, the time of fireflies and fairies and late-night magic, the time when everything is warm and lush and beautiful.

Chelle: And I'm Chelle, and I have famously dubbed Litha the forgotten Sabbat. It's it's a thing, I don't know why, but here we are. We are not forgetting. So, I think that this would be a good time to talk about Litha, to talk about fairies. I love fairies, fairy magic, and things that you can do for Litha right now. How do you want to start with the vibe of Litha?

Laylla: Litha is one of those holidays that's a celestial event. It's the longest day and the shortest night. During the summer solstice, which occurs around June 20th or 21st in the Northern Hemisphere, the North Pole of the planet is tilted closest to the sun. And this means that the sun will reach its highest point in the sky at noon. So whatever noon is for your local time, the sun will reach its highest point at noon for several days before and after the solstice, and it'll seem to be in the same position every day at noon. So it almost appears like the sun stands still, which is why it's so easy to observe and why this holiday has been acknowledged by so many different cultures for thousands of years. So the sun pauses at noon, and that results in the longest day and the shortest night of the year. That means that the summer solstice marks the exact moment when the sun appears at its northernmost point in the sky. And it's that point where, again, it stands still, and that's why we call it the solstice, because it's two Latin words: sol, sun, and stitium, stetum, to stand still. And the exact moment of the solstice is on June 20th at 10:42 p.m. Eastern Time. So if you live somewhere else, the time's going to be different.

Chelle: You know, I have mixed feelings about this because here we are in the Northeast, it kind of feels like summer's just starting, and then the thought of it just started and now here's the longest day and it's all downhill from here, that just for it has this weird thing in my mind. It doesn't settle well.

Laylla: Yeah, and sometimes it's even called Midsummer. And why do we call it Midsummer if it's technically the first day of summer?

Chelle: That's also a perspective thing in my mind.

Laylla: I think that's because the Celts had two seasons. They had winter and they had summer. So the summer solstice comes right in the middle of what would have been their summer season.

Chelle: Right, because they looked at Beltane as the start of summer. So when I think of Midsummer, I kind of think it's almost like they're two separate things to me. I don't know if you feel this way, but I feel this way. Because I look at Litha as honoring the sun, honoring the flushness, honoring the growth, all the things that are new and fresh and they're making me so stuffed up right now that I can hardly breathe. Those are the things I think of with Litha. But with Midsummer, I think more traveling between our realm and the fairy realm and the magicness of it and it's I don't know, they're just two separate events in my brain.

Laylla: Isn't that Litha, though? I mean, Litha is the fairy realm and it is a liminal space. Litha is one of those liminal holidays.

Chelle: Maybe it's just how I compartmentalize these things in my brain.

Laylla: Maybe, and you could. You know, you could absolutely say Litha is just the day of the event and Midsummer is more of like the season and the feeling, more of a an extended time of summer.

Chelle: It's kind of like those warm summer nights. I don't know, I think Midsummer, there's something about the day and the night that I think are drastically different about about the summer season. And maybe that's where I kind of differentiate the two. Litha's more of the bright sunlight celebration in my mind, and Midsummer is more of the evening and night celebration in my mind.

Laylla: Oh, okay. I see. I see. That's that's an interesting way to look at it. I like that. Because there is that, you know, Litha is all about celebrating the sun, Bel, the sun god, or sometimes you'll see Lugh celebrated as well, the king of the Tuatha Dé Danann. So you can celebrate that energetic, go-get-em, grow-everything type of power during the day, and then at night, it's that more sensual, the fireflies, the warm air on your skin, you know, the moonlight, the starlight.

Chelle: Campfires, yeah.

Laylla: Yeah, fires in the distance, the drumming. You know, that kind of vibe.

Chelle: That's the Midsummer piece to me. I guess that's kind of this just came to me as I was kind of speaking it out to you. It's almost like they're differentiated by like day and night to me. Litha's the day and Midsummer's the night.

Laylla: Okay, yeah, I can see that. Well, there is also, you know, the play A Midsummer Night's Dream that does have the fairies in it. You've got Oberon and Titania and Puck.

Chelle: Puck was a great character in that movie.

Laylla: Oh, yeah, Puck is a lot of fun, as long as you're not the butt of his joke, right?

Chelle: Well, yeah.

Laylla: But a lot of people associate Midsummer with the feelings of that play or that movie because that is about people who go into the woods and get enchanted by the fae and get kind of involved in these elaborate love affairs, triangles, I don't know. But it's all about that sensual summer magic of the night.

Chelle: And that's exactly what I think of with Midsummer, whereas Litha, it's about the sun shining and everything being lush, you know. This is also I never have thought of it as one of the harvest festivals, but if you think about it, it kind of is because this is where kind of the first things are starting to...

Laylla: Just barely starting to trickle in, especially this year. But yeah, it is that. It's when everything is so abundant. The seeds that you planted, physically and metaphorically, earlier in the year are now above ground. They're ripe. They're flowering. They're starting to produce. Everything around you is growing. And so the energy that you can tap into is that same kind of green, growing, abundant energy. That's the god, the sun god, that vibrant, move-forward kind of energy that you can tap into during the day with the sun.

Chelle: You're getting those first tastings of the fruits of your labor.

Laylla: Right. So the energy right now is all fertile energy. It's all new beginnings.

Chelle: It's also a good time, I think, to kind of shed you're we're at the halfway point as far as the calendar year. We're kind of at that six-month mark, and it's it's also a time I like to utilize to, you know, I had this plan at the beginning of the year. Now we're six months in. How's things going? What do I need to adapt? What do I need to change? You know, that refiguring things, you know. Maybe where you were magically six months ago isn't where you are magically now. There's a whole slew of things that can change in six months. So I think it's also a good time to commune with the land, talk to those land spirits, you know, see where you're at, see where you need to go, see what you need to adjust. It's a great time feet-on-the-ground time is what I like to call it. This is the time, especially here in the Northeast, where we can finally, without freezing our butts off, put feet on the ground. And that has a way of recentering you. So it's a good time to kind of do that six-month recentering.

Laylla: Not just by the calendar, but also celestially, this is a liminal time. The sun is at its strongest. It reaches its peak, and now it's going to gradually get less strong.

Chelle: That sounds like me on some days.

Laylla: Right? It's going to go into its waning phase. The sun the strength of the sun will be waning, and the nights will slowly start to get longer. The cycle of the sun and of the god mirrors the moon phases and the phases of the goddess. It's just on a year-long cycle instead of a monthly one.

Chelle: So in the Southern Hemisphere, it's actually Yule right now, which, you know, I love Yule. I just don't like the cold.

Laylla: So wherever you are in the world, the solstice is a midpoint of the year, midwinter or midsummer. The sun begins to get stronger or it begins to get weaker.

Chelle: Yeah. This is also a division of the year. You know, in our episode last year, we talked about the Oak King and the Holly King. This is when the power of the Oak King is at its height and then starts to gradually wane until the Holly King takes over for the dark half of the year. So you have that going on as well. As much as I look at it as almost like the beginning of the end as far as the year goes, there's a whole lot of season left. This isn't doom and gloom. And for the Southern Hemisphere, it's the the longest night, and now they have that gaining sun to look forward to. I think that a lot of a lot of things that we do magically go in ebbs and flows with the season, and the easier that starts to come to you, the more you get in a groove where you're not feeling the anxiety of what to do, when to do, how to do, and you just kind of feel it when it comes. How many times have we done Litha not on Litha?

Laylla: A million.

Chelle: A million. So, you know, you get into this groove with magic where you just kind of feel it as it comes. And I think that's where my division, you know, kind of circling back to the Midsummer Litha thing in my brain, I start to feel like that difference in magic between day and night. Day magic this time of year is different than night magic this time of year.

Laylla: That's that cycle thing, you know. That's that day-night cycle that's mirrored in the wheel of the year. And that's why I love following that type of cycle, because if you follow those subtle shifts of nature, those subtle shifts all around you, you can really start to get in tune with that. Just like you said, to feel those shifts between the day and night magic, you can start to feel those shifts of the earth's natural rhythms in yourself, too, and be more attuned to that. And, you know, that can help you be more grounded in your magic. That can help you be more connected to your craft and connected to your magical self. Now, we got a message that I want to talk about. Sometimes our perspective in the Northeast on celebrating the Sabbats is a little different with folks in different regions with different climates and different landscapes. So let's just quick touch on a message.

Laylla: We got an email from someone. Now, at the end of their email, this person says, "It's a little dangerous to be out of the broom closet here," and they are from Southeast Texas. So we're just going to refer to them by their first initial of K.

Chelle: Hey, K. Thank you for emailing us. It was a very, very nice email. I'm just going to kind of paraphrase a little bit.

Laylla: Now, K has been on the witch path since 2018 and has been loving our podcast. So thank you very much for that.

Chelle: Thank you.

Laylla: And she listened to our 2023 episode on Litha. I highly recommend our 2024 episode on Litha. We talk about the Oak King and the Holly King. Really, really good.

Chelle: I recommend all our episodes. What the hell?

Laylla: She said it was super interesting because, "I have really opposite feelings about the summer and the rest of the seasons than y'all do. Here in Texas, the summer is oppressive, draining, exhausting, and we just try to survive the heat and the drought. The grass is brown and prickly and hurts to walk through. Scorpions, rattlesnakes, copperheads, water moccasins, and black widows are abundant."

Chelle: No. No.

Laylla: "The dirt is dusty and constantly being blown into dust devils that hurt to breathe in. When the south winds blow, the humidity feels like an energy vampire riding on my shoulders." She says that even though she's sun-oriented and hates the cold, summer means that she's inside, shut off from the outside world, does not feel magical at all. So everything that we like about the summer, she doesn't have the same thing.

Chelle: Yeah, I've never been to Texas, and boy, if that wasn't the most poignant description I have ever heard.

Laylla: Yeah, you described it very well. Now, K, I do have some insight here because I did live in Southern California for several years, and I have also stayed in Texas. I have quite a few relatives that live in Texas, so I am familiar with this weather. Now, when I first moved to California, I didn't know what to do because the landscape was so different than the very wet forest of the Finger Lakes in New York State that I was familiar with. And then I fell in love with it. It just took one camping trip to Joshua Tree and seeing the stars and hearing the life and seeing the rattlesnakes and the dust devils and, yes, even the black widows in my backyard to appreciate that. It's a different kind of life.

Chelle: I remember you sending me a black widow picture one time, and I was like, "Oh my god, move back to New York."

Laylla: I kind of love them. But yeah, that life is beautiful. It's scary and it's different, but it's gorgeous and it's powerful, and you can honor its power by acknowledging its force and choosing shade, shadows, and rest. Work with the sun energy when it's softer, in the morning or in the evening, or while you're indoors in the air conditioning. But work with that harshness. Acknowledge the sun as a god of fierce discipline, not just growth and radiance and beautiful summer days. He is the god of power, but also responsibility, of different sides to that season. And, you know, the serpent, too, is also a symbol of solar power. They absorb the energy of the sun. They coil on themselves. They are a symbol of Hecate and so many different goddesses and gods. So, you know, there's power and honor in that as well. So the god, that sun god, is an acknowledgment that sometimes power comes with responsibility, but finding those differences and what they can teach you is is part of being a witch. And I know that Joshua Tree is not the same as Southeast Texas, but people have been finding magic and connection to the gods in the desert forever. It is so easy to go out there and feel such a deep connection to everything, to feel that vibrance, that life, that magic pulse that somehow the desert is so full of. And even though at first glance it might look dead or empty, there's so much there. The magic is powerful. Jim Morrison being out in Joshua Tree at night with the stars, I mean, he wrote really weird, crazy, magical songs about that because that place is powerful. You can feel it in the desert and in the dune.

Chelle: You know, I think that this goes right back to how I kind of differentiate Midsummer and Litha in my brain. You know, maybe K would have a better time honing into that Midsummer night magic where it's cooler and, by the way, the stars are probably amazing in Texas, I would think. So pull into that night magic more so than that hardcore sun energy that you've got me afraid of now.

Laylla: Right. I used to say that the sun in the summertime in Southern California was trying to kill us. It was not the benevolent forest god, the horned god running through the woods trying to tempt you to go to a bonfire and fool around with him. No, this god really wants to kill you. He'd like to give you skin cancer, and maybe you should die.

Chelle: And you kept trying to get me to go out there.

Laylla: Yeah, because I still love it. But tap into that. Tap into those energies. You know, learn about the different life that's abundant in the summertime there. So you'll have to celebrate the season slightly differently. For me, in Southern California, it's definitely different than Texas, but February, March, April, oh my god, the abundance, everything's green and growing. So things are different there at different times of the season. So you have to adapt these. Yes, it's still the longest day and the shortest night. Yes, your god, your sun god, is different in Texas than our sun god is at the same time of year here in the Northeast. So you have to work with him, work with that energy differently. It's a little stronger, so when you make your sun tea, it's going to be powerful. It's going to be that heavy, angry, you know, that maybe not necessarily angry, because I don't I don't necessarily think the sun wants to kill you.

Chelle: Sounds like it does.

Laylla: No, it's more like the sun in the desert wants you to pay attention, use common sense, and know your limits.

Chelle: Just wants to whip you into shape.

Laylla: Just wants to whip you into shape, or maybe get you ready for the next season, because I know a lot of plants in these places have to get hot. Some of them even need to burn before they can grow. And so maybe the sun god in your area is trying to whip you into shape, is trying to mold you into who you need to be for the next season. So work with the energies where you're at. It's difficult for us, you know, we're we're talking a lot about where we're at right now, but I know just in the United States, there's a lot of different environments at this time of year.

Chelle: Yeah. It goes back to your whole thing with spirit of place. Remember we talked about spirit of place? You know, what you're saying totally makes me think of spirit of place, that, you know, you got to connect with the land spirits of where you're at. And, you know, maybe you're in the burning depths of hell right now in Texas, but work with that. Utilize that. Utilize that energy. But, you know, work with that spirit of place.

Laylla: You know, talk to him. Talk to that god. He's a little pricklier. He's a little hot.

Chelle: I see what you did there. I like that.

Laylla: So, yeah, work with what's there. Work with how he is. Work with how the energy of the goddess is. Maybe she's quieter. Maybe she's sleepier. Maybe she comes more alive at night.

Chelle: And, you know, you can absolutely do any magical working, even if it's if it's trying to work with the evil sun god. You know, you can do that at nighttime. It's not that the sun got put in a box and was taken away for the night, you know. It's just out of your view. And just because it's out of your view doesn't mean it's there.

Laylla: What? No, when the sun's out of my view, it's just totally gone.

Chelle: Really? You think that?

Laylla: No.

Chelle: But yeah, yeah, I would just I would do all my magical workings at nighttime, even if it was honoring the sun god at night, because I'm crazy enough to do that.

Laylla: It's god o'clock somewhere.

Chelle: It is god o'clock somewhere.

Laylla: That's right. So, yeah, work with that energy at night when it's much easier and gentler to handle.

Chelle: Stay away from scorpions.

Laylla: Stay away from scorpions. Summer nights, pretty much most places until it gets oppressive, but summer nights can be absolutely sensual, beautiful, wonderful ways to connect with that warm, more gentle sun energy.

Chelle: That still is giving that power and strength and abundance. It's just giving it from a corner that it's dark where you're at and you can't see it, and that's okay.

Laylla: Yeah. Thank you, K, so much for sending in this question. I'm- I'm so glad that you wrote to us, and I'm so sorry that it's dangerous to be out of the broom closet there.

Chelle: We hope you have good air conditioning.

Laylla: All right, so we keep talking about a midsummer night and A Midsummer Night's Dream, and that's a lot because this holiday reminds Chelle a lot of the Fae and of that movie or the play, A Midsummer Night's Dream.

Chelle: It does, and you know, we did way back, who knows when, when I was a younger soul, we actually did a Midsummer Night's Dream themed ritual. I think we did do it for Litha.

Laylla: Oh, it was Litha. Yeah, I remember the fireflies were out and beautiful.

Chelle: You know, I think one thing that- that really strikes me the most about the summer nights and the midsummer night is in the nighttime in the summer, you've got that warm air, you've got the fireflies, even more magnificent to see the moon, at least where I'm at in the summertime. For some reason, it seems bigger, closer to the Earth in the summertime, and it's just huge, and I love it. And I feel like this time is a good time to connect with the Fae. They- there are those that out are out there claiming that this is when the veil is thinnest between the Fae realm and this realm. And I do believe that to be true because, especially when I think of the Fae, I'm thinking of- I'm not, you know, I know there's snow fairies, I get it, but when I think of the Fae, I think of more summertime Fae. They're living in little trees and little moss areas, not in snow mounds. So, this is definitely the time that I especially most associate with that Fae work and being able to make that connection.

Laylla: The type of Fae that Chelle is referring to here is what I would call land spirits. And in the Northeast, she'd be most familiar with land that is awake mostly spring through the fall, and then it goes to sleep for the winter, basically. And yes, there are absolutely land spirit Fae that thrive in the winter and the cold, but they're not very abundant, and they're not very nice. So, unless you're doing work with them, you might not even be aware that they're all around you.

Chelle: Please be careful. The Fae can be dangerous folk. Please be careful.

Laylla: They're not that bad, especially land spirits.

Chelle: Well, yeah.

Laylla: I associate the summer solstice with the Fae mostly because solstices are liminal times, and you'll hear a lot of witches and magical people talking about different holidays and the veil being thin, whether it's between here and the spirit realm, here and the Fae realm. They'll talk about that a lot. And the reason is because these are between times. It's a time between a time. So, in this case, this again is a celestial event, the longest day and the shortest night. It marks a powerful threshold on the Wheel of the Year. It's a pause. You know, the sun pauses in the sky at midsummer, at the height of its power. It's a moment when the energies of the light half of the year shifts. It reaches the height of its power, but then it begins to wane. Then it begins to march toward the dark half of the year. So, Litha is that threshold. It's the height of abundance and warmth, the sun-drenched very apex of power, but it's also a tipping point. It's also when the tide turns from that waxing to fullness to waning, to the dark half. So, it's a threshold. It's the moment of the sun god's greatest dominance and power, but it's also the moment of his downfall. It contains that first whisper, the first beginnings of the dark half of the year. This is a cycle. This is cyclical. It happens every year, and that gives it its power. That gives it its liminal quality. So, that makes it very predictable, regular, it's cyclical, and so that makes it a very magical time. It's a magical moment. So, if you wanted to celebrate that exact moment, again, that's June 20th at 10:49 PM Eastern, and that's the exact moment of the solstice.

Chelle: And there's actually sites all across the world that have formations, a lot of them are rock formations, where somehow, some way, they were placed, built, grew, whatever the case may be, where the sun goes through a specific area right at the moment of the solstice. It's Glastonbury, I believe, that is one of those spots.

Laylla: And I also believe Stonehenge, the sun lines up between two pillars and strikes the stone in the center, I believe. There's also something with the pyramids where the sun comes up directly between them on the solstice.

Chelle: Yep.

Laylla: Yep.

Chelle: So, this is definitely- it's- it's almost like a- like you said, it's- it's- it's a guaranteed thing to happen each year.

Laylla: Yes, and it's a guaran- it's something that has been celebrated for 10,000 plus years. I mean, they have evidence of this being at least marked and noted in many, many cultures around the world way, way back into history. And that's because it is a moment, again, a celestial moment that you can measure and mark, and it does happen the same way every single year. That's what gives it its liminal quality. That's what makes it a magical marker in the universe. And so, that's why people talk about the veil being thin between the worlds because this magical cyclical moment has happened and occurred again. And so, that opens the world. That opens the space. And some people, the Celts, the Irish, have the Sidhe, the Tuatha Dé Danann, fairy folk, the people under the hill, and they were here before humans were. They were one of the many different types of people that were here. And some people say that it was Litha, it was midsummer when they had to go under hill and went off into the fairy realm. So, sometimes they say that's why they're associated with it. And there's a lot of lore and tales associated with the Fae and midsummer.

Chelle: And so, you know, that kind of led me down this rabbit hole of working with the Fae this time of year. But, you know, you hear the rumors, you hear what's out there. Yes, you need to be careful working with the Fae. Should you be scared of working with the Fae? Absolutely not. But should you use an air of caution? Well, yeah. I'd say the same thing about using bleach in the laundry.

Laylla: There you go. We have talked about the Fae before, and we mostly say that, basically, you should be polite, you should always say what you mean. That's pretty much it. As long as you do that, you're fine. If you say you're going to do something, make sure you do it.

Chelle: Well, yeah. And I'm also a big proponent of when you're working with the Fae, bring gifts. It's like going to your grandmother's for Christmas. Bring gifts.

Laylla: Preferably shiny gifts.

Chelle: Or another favorite of mine is honey. Fairies like honey.

Laylla: They do. Sweet things, shiny things, always good. Always good to have a nice exchange. Now, an exchange with the Fae, since you mentioned that, why don't we get into a little bit about gifts for the Fae, which are a nice thing to leave out for Litha or for summertime. And we'll also mention a couple spells and ways to work with midsummer and Fae energy in your practice.

Chelle: You know what I did one summer? You know how you can get that thread that's- it's almost like silver thread. You know what I'm talking about? It's kind of coarse, but it's really- it's- it's basically silver thread, but it's a little coarse. I would leave out six-inch strips of that because to them, they can make bracelets or ropes or- it was their size. I was leaving these little six-inch silver cords around. They were shiny. I thought it was cute. It worked.

Laylla: Taking ribbons or cords, knotting them, and saying your wish into them as you knot them and then tying it on a tree is- is often something that people will do to make offerings to Fae. One of the things that I recently learned was about the elder tree, and elder trees, or the witch's tree, sometimes it's also called the fairy tree.

Chelle: Ooh, why is that?

Laylla: There's folklore that says that it's inhabited by a land spirit, sometimes called the mother. And if you see an elder tree and you want to take some berries or flowers from it or take some of its wood, that you have to ask permission first, which we kind of recommend.

Chelle: You should do that with everything.

Laylla: Yeah. Specifically with this tree, you have to ask permission because if you don't, she would definitely get her revenge.

Chelle: Ooh, do tell.

Laylla: Well, I don't know what she would do, but they just said that it was bad and she'd get her revenge. So, they left it blank to let your imagination run wild.

Chelle: Because we follow directions and we don't find out the bad stuff.

Laylla: We're not fuck around and find out people?

Chelle: No, we are. I'm just fibbing.

Laylla: So, elder trees have a lot of Fae traditions around them. They are sacred to the Fae. And if you visit an elder tree, especially around Litha, you can make offerings to the tree and do that to make wishes with the Fae. Again, just make sure that whatever you offer them is worth whatever you're wishing for, and that if you give them a gift of words or a gift of something that you'll do, make sure you follow through.

Chelle: And, you know, also I think working with the Fae gives you that opportunity because you- you will be out kind of out in the land, and you will be kind of communing with the land while doing so. Working with the Fae almost kind of doubles as having that connection with the land in that moment.

Laylla: Midsummer is a wonderful time to go out to your land, like K, deep in the heart of Texas, go out to your land and find out what your land is like. Go out where the sun's not trying to kill you, go out at night or whenever it's comfortable, and walk your land. Walk it. Okay, again, not for K, don't walk it barefoot because you might get bit by a snake. But, you know, walk your land, try to feel it, put your hands in the dirt, put your toes in the dirt, touch a tree, touch a plant, or walk the sidewalks. Walk wherever it happens to be, and listen to the land. Listen to the insects, listen to the cars, listen to the rhythm of the land around you, and really try to connect with that. The nighttime is fabulous in midsummer because it just feels magical. There's something about it. There's something that just feels different.

Chelle: Different.

Laylla: It does feel like that liminal space. So, if you have a night where the moon comes up and the breeze is warm and soft and you kind of feel that calling, go out, walk that land, and see what it's like, see what it says to you.

Chelle: And, you know, I also think another good thing to point out is, so we talked about how Litha is technically, you know, either the 20th or the 21st. And, you know, I even joked earlier about how many times have we actually celebrated Litha on Litha. There's something to be said for that because maybe where you're at and your environment and your surroundings aren't conducive for you to do something on the 20th or 21st, but you'd be able to on the 23rd. Don't think that that is going to hinder your intentions at all, in- in our opinion. Your intentions on the 23rd are the same as they were on the 20th, and you don't have to focus on the date so much as that feeling that you have, that magic coming to you. A date is just a date. Who made the calendar anyway?

Laylla: Well, the solstices are an actual celestial event. It's not-

Chelle: I know, but I also know that I haven't celebrated it on the actual celestial event and it's been fine.

Laylla: Exactly. And the point is, our old community would usually celebrate on the weekend closest.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: A lot of covens, your coven probably celebrates it on the weekend closest.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: So, it- it really doesn't matter. If you want to brew yourself some sun tea during the day on the 20th and then at 10:49 PM Eastern, you want to toast the god with that tea, you can.

Chelle: Oh my god, I have a wicked good idea for K and all of the other folks in the Deep South. So, if it is blazing like the ass crack of Satan down there, what about an outdoor simmer pot? You know what I'm saying? Like create a simmer pot, not one that you drink. I'm- I'm talking more of the simmer pot nature, not the drinkable nature.

Laylla: So, you're saying that you're harnessing the power of the sun to heat up herbs like- like in a potion?

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: Almost like a sun tea, but more of a- a spell brew to use as an offering or a spell component? Is that- is that what you're making?

Chelle: I kind of use it more as like a magical concoction that kind of brews that magic into the air, not so much as to make my house smell good.

Laylla: Okay. All right, I see what you're saying. Like an herbal potion created with the energy of the sun. Not tea because you're not going to drink it, you know, because you can make a sun tea spell by putting your herbs in, but you're talking about making a spell infusion.

Chelle: Almost like a liquid incense.

Laylla: All right, so Satan's ass crack, use the heat of that sun to power a spell, power a tea spell. Put your drinkable herbs in there, put your mint for money, put your chamomile for peace, put your green tea in there for power, whatever you need, and use the power of the sun to do that. Or like Chelle said, try to brew yourself a potion, make sun water, make solar water, but infuse it with those herbs. Put those herbs and things in there that you want in addition to the power of the sun, and label it. And now you've got this herbal concoction of energized sun water with all the power infused of these herbs that you've added to it as well.

Chelle: So, you can have your moon water and you can have your sun water. Please label responsibly.

Laylla: Yeah. And if you do put herbs in it, make sure you use it pretty quickly.

Chelle: Yeah, and also just be cognizant if it's something you're going to try to drink, make sure that you're using, what do they call that, FDA approved herbs so that you're- you're not making yourself ill. We're not doctors.

Laylla: Ooh, speaking of herbs and making yourselves ill, I'm going to take a left-hand turn here, Chelle.

Chelle: Oh my god, you never do that.

Laylla: I know, it's my turn this episode. But I have been having a lot of fun with mugwort lately since you mentioned-

Chelle: Oh my god, that makes me not be able to breathe just thinking about it.

Laylla: I know, I know. So, I was lamenting in an earlier episode that we didn't have any here. Well, that's because we mowed it all down before we realized what it was. We moved in later in the spring last year, so a lot of it had already been mowed before we got here. So, this year, we didn't mow some sections, and the mugwort came up like crazy because it's invasive in- in a lot of places in the United States. So, I've been harvesting for a little bit. I harvested some early mugwort. I've heard some people say that you should harvest it before it flowers. I've also heard some people say that you should harvest it on June 6th, so I harvested a bunch then. But mugwort is a dreaming herb. Mugwort is a mystical liminal space herb.

Chelle: It's ironic that June 6th is a good time to pick it right before the solstice.

Laylla: And it's also an herb associated with the Fae because you can work with mugwort in tea, in smokeable spells, in incense, in sachets, fresh, dried, it's wonderful. And funny story, so I was out walking my woods, and I found a huge patch of mugwort. And I picked a bunch of it early because it's a little bit less bitter that way for tea, and it's also nice in smokeables, a little early as well. And holy cow, the dreams, Chelle. Just from picking it, the dreams that I had that night were crazy.

Chelle: Medicine soaked into your skin.

Laylla: Yeah. So, I have a bunch of it drying, and then I usually like to dry it just for a couple days. Um, I don't want it to be fresh-fresh when I make it into a smoke bundle if I'm going to be wrapping it into a bundle. I like it to be a little on the drier side, like not crispy, but drier.

Chelle: Like it to be like your weed.

Laylla: Yeah. Ha, funny. Not quite that dry. But yes, so when I took it down after a few days, you know, when it was ready to be bundled, again, the dreams, holy cow. So, mugwort, especially in June, right around Litha, if you want to work with the Fae, if you want to do dream work, gather yourself some fresh mugwort. Put the leaves in a little cotton or linen bag, whatever you've got, put it under your pillow, put it near your bed, and ask for dreams. Do a ritual where you ask for it. Tell the herbs your intention. "I want to dream about my future job. I want to dream about the best relationship for me." Set your intentions, ask the herbs to help you, and then put them next to your bed with a journal or your phone ready to record.

Chelle: Near your bed.

Laylla: In this case, it's really, really important.

Chelle: Yeah, because you don't remember your dreams after a while being awake.

Laylla: They're so fleeting, especially if you cross the hedge, if you're doing liminal dreaming, if you're doing magical dreaming, it can be so ephemeral. They can be so fleeting. So, definitely have something to write down or record your dreams as soon as you wake up. Hit that record button and say everything. Tell your sleepy self before you go to bed, "I will remember to hit the record button," or "I will remember to write down everything I think of."

Chelle: The only thing I- I- I want to point out is there are other options besides mugwort if you are dire allergic to it like I am.

Laylla: That's true. There are other things. I just happened to have an experience this year with mugwort, so I wanted to share.

Chelle: You make me want to go like rub it and touch it. Wow, that's weird.

Laylla: That's bad. You're so allergic to it.

Chelle: But, you know, it already makes me stuffed up and I can't breathe just because it grows near me. I might as well rub it and touch it and have dreams.

Laylla: There you go. There's a lot of different stories about how you can see the Fae or work with the Fae. And summertime, when the nights are magical and the fairies are out, is a perfect time. It feels magical. It feels like fairies are there. So, there's also a couple different things that you can do. One, I heard when I was very little, was that if you look between a cat's ears when they're staring at nothing, you can see fairies.

Chelle: Interesting.

Laylla: I also have a couple different spells because I've also heard that like if you take elderflowers and make like an elderflower- you don't even have to make a tisane out of it, you can just kind of soak it in the water for a little bit and then just touch that water to your each of your eyelids and your third eye and say a charm, you can see the Fae. You could also do that with mugwort. You could make like a- like I said, a little tisane or little tea out of mugwort, cool it down, or just soak it in the water a little bit and just gently touch each eyelid and your forehead. Not if you're Chelle, not if you're allergic to it. So, if mugwort isn't your thing, you could take a little bit of cat hair or catnip along with some type of dreaming herb like blue lotus or damiana. Mix them in water while focusing on the intention of being able to see into the fairy or the magical realm. And then, under a summer moon and under an elder tree for best results, dab a bit of that water onto your eyelids and your third eye while repeating your intention to have true sight or to see through falsehoods or to see the Fae.

Chelle: I always was told when I was little, don't look too deep in the hole of a tree because if you look too deep in the hole of a tree, a fairy will look back out at you.

Laylla: There you go. I like that one.

Chelle: That scared me because I was afraid to look in a tree and find a little face looking at me.

Laylla: You can also do a spiral fairy wish spell with just a stone and a few leaves or petals, strands of grass or whatever. Find a spot outside and center yourself. Take a deep breath and state your wish or your intention, and then start to slowly walk inward in a spiral. And every few steps, just drop a little bit of the petals or the leaves and repeat your wish. You know, whatever it is your intention is. Just slowly walk this spiral, dropping those petals and stating your wish over and over. When you get to the center, hold your rock or pebble that you brought with you and bury it in the dirt. And thank the Earth, thank the Fae for making your wish come true. Then walk back out the spiral and don't look back, and don't return to that spot for three days, and your wish should come true.

Chelle: I want to circle back real quick because you made me tell you what I would leave as a a gift for the Fae, but you never told us what you would leave as a gift for the Fae.

Laylla: I personally like to leave uh plants. I like to leave bring some of my plants out there. I like to leave flowers. I like to make offerings by working my land, I guess. I like to clean up my land. I like to take care of it. And in doing that, I feel that I am helping to steward the Fae of my land.

Chelle: Helping them kind of upkeep their home?

Laylla: Yeah. Yeah. And sometimes when I make a garden, I will plant flowers in there particularly for the fairies so that they can have beautiful things there. But most of the time, I Okay, actually, my favorite thing to do is fairy chess. And we've talked about this before. Fairy chess is something I learned from a Green Egg magazine a long time ago. There was an article. Oberon Zell and Morning Glory Zell, I believe it was Morning Glory Zell who created this game. You find a stump or rock or a small patch of dirt on the ground, and you take other little things. Now, try not to disturb the land too much. You know, everybody knows that making those stone piles are probably not good for the environment. I'm just talking about a twig here, a leaf there, maybe a little flower that's fallen, or a stone. Just take these little objects, little things that seem magical, that maybe call to you, and arrange them in a pretty little shape on that stump or rock or dirt. You can get kind of elaborate or keep it very simple depending on where you're at. Like here on my land, I like to make very pretty sigils and symbols and circles and spirals with the different flowers and the grasses and things that are here. But that's because it's here, and I know that it's getting chopped down in a few days, so it's not going to really matter, so I can use a ton of it. But if you're at a public park or something, you might be a little more cautious. But you can still play elven chess and make a little pretty symbol for them, or make a pretty little spiral, or make a little house out of bark and offer that to them. Now, not all Fae are the cute little Tinker Bell kind of Fae. A lot of them are large and glowing and big as people. But still, making these little offerings, these little symbolic offerings to the land can be very beneficial in furthering your relationship with them. So, yeah, mostly taking care of the land and sometimes a little bit of elven chess.

Chelle: So, I have a confession.

Laylla: What's that?

Chelle: Going on the elven chess thing. I was thinking that same thought the other night, and actually happened to be in the local Target parking lot. Happened to have a pair of scissors in my car, and I very politely asked for a couple of roses and cut them from the Target parking lot. There, I said it. I did it. And then I brought them home and did a very nice little float them in water. That's what I like to do, float them in water and then drip little honey about it and leave it on the windowsill.

Laylla: Windowsills are very cool liminal spaces, so I love that you left it on the windowsill because doorways, windows, also liminal spaces between here and there. So, if you want to have a physical connection, like a lot of times we talk about sympathetic magic, like for like magic, a windowsill being a liminal space can help you cross that Fae liminal space. So, by leaving an offering in a doorway or in a window, that definitely connects you to that.

Chelle: But you also have to remember you're also at that point inviting them in.

Laylla: That's true, too. Make sure that you recognize that and you understand that relationship. Again, if you make any promises, you keep up your end of the bargain.

Chelle: Yeah, because you don't want to find out what happens if you don't. It ain't fun. It's like kind of making your parents mad. No fun.

Laylla: Probably even worse.

Chelle: Well, yeah.

Laylla: So, your Litha rituals with the Fae, whether it's your land Fae or you're trying to connect with the Tuatha Dé Danann, like Lugh, you can do that by embracing the sensual in your life. You know, walk slowly in the moonlight, wear your favorite scent, wear luxurious clothing. Another way is to do a glamour spell. You can do that by creating a mask. Take one of those plain carnival masks and some paint or markers, glitter. You can use natural objects like feathers, moss, beads, whatever you like, ribbon, charms, whatever. And have a mirror nearby. Center yourself, relax, and say something like, "I step between the worlds of Litha and light, where Fae dance in beauty's sight. Let glamour rise and masks reveal the sacred self I now am and feel." And then decorate your mask. Color it, paint it, glue things to it, feathers. Make it as interesting, cool, magical, whatever as you like. And while you're making the mask, three times during while you're making the mask, look into the mirror, and each time say something different that you love about yourself. Gaze into your reflection, say what you love about yourself, go back to working on the mask, and do that three times. When you finish the mask, state your intention, which is should be some type of quality that you want to bring out of yourself or honor with the mask. Maybe it's beauty, self-confidence, maybe it's magic or inner sight, whatever it is. And then gaze into the candle flame and imagine yourself shimmering with this glamour. Breathe in, breathe out slowly. Draw in the beauty or whatever it is that you have created and anchor that into you and into your sense of self. Put the mask on, look into the mirror one more time, and state that you have that quality. "I am beauty. I am strength." Whatever it is that you made that mask for. Look at yourself and say that. Really feel it. And then take the mask and keep it on your altar as a reminder of all those things that you're drawing into your life.

Chelle: You know, I've actually done a ritual in the past where I was just looking to just have a conversation with Tinker Bell. So, you know, you're talking about these deep, big fairy presences, and here I am one night, you know, in 1990-what, trying to summon Tinker Bell.

Laylla: I love that. All right. Well, Tinker Bell is definitely a good example of, at least the movie Tinker Bell is a good example of fairies that aren't always nice.

Chelle: You know, and I think that was the misconception I had until I had that encounter.

Laylla: There you go.

Chelle: And I learned better. Then I learned better. And I think sometimes that's what working with the Fae is. It's all a learning process. You learn what is acceptable and what isn't acceptable super quick.

Laylla: Since Litha is all about abundance and it's about crossing this liminal space, it's Midsummer. We're going from the days growing longer to the nights are now starting to grow longer. So, since we're crossing that liminal space, doing a ritual or a spell to help you get into the next phase of your life or to help, you know, maybe the seeds that you planted back in earlier in the year, now you've reevaluated. You've seen how they've started to grow. Now you want to see where they're going to go for the next part of the year, the next half of the year. So, you can focus your energies or your spells in that direction. Incorporate the Fae by having the spell be something that you create. Maybe you roll a candle or maybe you make a braid or or some type of knot work. And so you can incorporate craftsmanship, which the Fae appreciate, into that as well.

Chelle: See, I also kind of, you know, going back to the Midsummer Night's theme, you and I randomly call upon the Fae throughout the year for various things. And I kind of look at this as also a big thank you because, you know, what do you do in the summertime? You know, people have parties. People have barbecues. People have gatherings. People have family reunions. It's it's a time of year where people do tend to more get together. So, it's also kind of a good time where your ritual can just be a thank you. Thank you for everything that you have assisted with this past year and for the future assistance. And kind of make it almost like a gratitude ritual.

Laylla: Don't say thank you to the Fae.

Chelle: Maybe that was my problem with working with the Fae is I said thank you too much. Shit.

Laylla: No, traditionally, you should say, "I appreciate your assistance. Your assistance helped me in many ways."

Chelle: Celebration of assistance. Celebrating their assistance, kind of a I keep going back to that word. I can't I can't it's just rolling off my tongue. I'm such a people pleaser.

Laylla: How about just be thankful for abundance, be thankful for the energy of the Fae that's in your life. You know, what is a barbecue but a bonfire where you're celebrating fire and summer and that abundance. So, you know, incorporate all of that in there.

Chelle: I just have these visions of little fairies using little flowers to get drunk off of, using them as their little cup. You know, fill the little flower with some drinky-drink and get a little cooky-cooky.

Laylla: I think maybe it's Patricia Kennealy-Morrison's fault or maybe it's Morgan Daimler's fault. I'm not sure. But I tend to see the Fae as like big, shining, scary people who are very beautiful and very angry.

Chelle: See, and I don't see them like that. I see them more kind of a compact figure that is very delightful unless you cross them. You know, kind of like me. I can be delightful until I get to that point. And I I kind of look at the Fae as delightful and and and unless you cross that cross that line.

Laylla: So, you're kind of like Tinker Bell. You can have happy Chelle and angry Chelle.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: Happy Shell and angry Shell.

Chelle: There you go. All right.

Laylla: Yeah, so have that barbecue, celebrate the abundance in your life, celebrate the energies of the land around you.

Chelle: Feel the land. Take this time. This is a good time, if you have the opportunity, if you are able due to location, feel the land. Even if that is literally going out and putting bare feet on the ground, hands on the ground. The land has something to say, and we all need to listen.

Laylla: And summertime is a wonderful time of abundance, even if the closest you can get to the land is finding a farmers market. You know, see if you can connect that way. There's lots of different ways to connect with that abundance.

Chelle: But I think with Litha, the main thing is don't let it continue to be the holiday that people seem to forget. I think that as much as we're all busy right now, we need to remember to celebrate those ticks of the wheel when that wheel turns. And it's easy to kind of pass some of them by due to circumstance, but let let this not be the forgotten holiday.

Laylla: Get out there, enjoy the day as much as you can. Enjoy the night.

Chelle: Enjoy the night.

Laylla: Enjoy the energies of abundance and fertility and

Chelle: The warmth, the light. I think the biggest thing, especially for us here in the Northern Hemisphere, the light. Vitamin D deficiency is a thing, so we like our sunlight. And and to know that this peak of sun, we've waited all year for the peak of sun, and here it is. Do something with that energy.

Laylla: You've got the strength and the abundance and the growth. So, use that energy in your life to find those things and to apply that wherever you need it.

Chelle: And if it's the Winter Solstice for you today, then there is a light coming. Enjoy it. You've had your darkest night, and now you are creeping towards the light.

Laylla: Thank you guys so much for listening to this episode of Back on the Broomstick. However the light is in your half of the year, we hope you are enjoying it. And we hope to see you next week. We have another episode coming up for you, maybe a couple surprises between now and then. If you'd like to get in touch with us in the meantime, send us an email, send us an Instagram DM, send us a Facebook message.

Chelle: Send us mail at our PO box, man.

Laylla: We are getting all caught up on that. We do have our mailbag episode coming out shortly. That information is down in the show description of the episode. We hope you enjoy your Summer Solstice. Until then, be wise, be Wiccan,

Chelle: and keep it witchy.
