Chelle: Welcome to Back on the Broomstick, a modern witches' spoken word grimoire, where two witchy friends from way back are reconnecting to their pagan roots after a long period of mundanity.

Laylla: We're rewalking the path of the wise and trying out all the latest spells, rituals, and magical theory in today's witchcraft and pagan practices.

Chelle: So grab your wand and your incense, your cauldron and your crystals, and join us as we get back on the broomstick.

Laylla: Hey, I'm your host Laylla.

Chelle: And I am living the mayhem of retrograde as Chelle.

Laylla: And mayhem it is indeed. Mercury retrograde has brought the pain.

Chelle: I just thought since both of us are getting our asses whooped by this Mercury retrograde, that maybe we should have a little convo about it today.

Laylla: Yeah, Mercury retrograde has definitely entered the lexicon in the last few years.

Chelle: You know, it's all over, it's all over TikTok, it's all over Instagram, it's all over Facebook, and you know, all these new baby witchlings are like, "Oh, what's Mercury retrograde? Oh, this sounds cool." It is not cool, people. Not cool, okay? Like this shit is whooping me this go-round.

Laylla: Mercury retrograde is actually a period of time that happens three to four times a year, and it is when Mercury, the planet, which is named for the Roman messenger god, like he's the god of communication, he's the god of travel, transportation, talking, contracts,

Chelle: Bullshit.

Laylla: all of that.

Chelle: He's the god of bullshit, that's what he is.

Laylla: Mercury is very fast. This planet only takes 88 days to go around the sun compared to our 365. So there are a few times of year where it's going so fast and we're going so slow, that it looks like it's moving backwards. The only thing I can think of to kind of explain it a little bit is, have you ever been sitting in a parked car and the car next to you moves, and you feel like you're moving?

Chelle: You feel like you're moving, yes.

Laylla: But you're not really. That's kind of what's happening with Mercury. It doesn't really go backwards. It's just because of the speed difference, it looks to us like it's moving backwards in the sky. And so this is the time of miscommunication, travel problems, problems with the written word, the spoken word, problems getting into anything. And this particular retrograde is occurring in the astrological sign of Taurus, which hits us all in the home and in the pocketbook.

Chelle: The two places that I have no mood to be hit right now.

Laylla: Nobody is. Are we ever ready to be hit, you know, in the wallet or in the house? No. No, we are not.

Chelle: But it can also due to, and and obviously these are kind of maybe offshoots of communication, you know, you experience like that hesitation and kind of like, bleh, that like bleh. I don't even know how to explain it. Exhaustion ain't the right word, tired ain't the right word, like you're just like bleh. And like things can break down. They can break down because of communication or or financially. It is, uh, uh.

Laylla: Mercury nowadays doesn't just govern communication and travel, it's all about technology, computers, our phones, our work, anything to do with anything communication. So all of these things, all of these systems in our lives, you know, our calendars, and in my case, my car is having the world's most mysterious electrical problem.

Chelle: Well, you know like, you know how I like anecdotes and metaphors. So because things have that air of moving backwards, there's a lot of symbolism in that of things returning to us, going back to things, you know what I'm saying?

Laylla: Oh, and karma coming back to us.

Chelle: Yeah, Mercury retrograde isn't really what's causing this. I mean, we like to blame because that's who we are as a society. It's basically karma saying you didn't sort your shit out in the first place, and because you didn't sort your shit out in the first place, here we are.

Laylla: That happens a lot, particularly again because this Mercury retrograde is in Taurus, that has a lot to do with going back to basics, you know, rebuilding. Kind of, you better be stable because when things go backwards, if you're not stable, you're going to fall over. You know, it's kind of like you said, a little bit karmic, kind of that chance to see if you're on solid ground, see if if where you're at is stable enough to withstand these kind of backwards winds.

Chelle: Bleh, that's a good explanation, backwards winds.

Laylla: Yeah, trying to push you backwards, right?

Chelle: Yeah, you nailed it, backwards winds. Damn.

Laylla: Sure. And and again, it's not literally going backwards, but this is a good time to, if you're going to, if you're going to get through a Mercury retrograde, this is a good time to go back to basics, find what makes you feel secure, what makes you feel like you're at home. When do you feel like you are safe and you feel good and you're grounded? This is a good time to look into all of those things and make sure that they're, they can withstand that type of storm.

Chelle: Now, I did find a good article that I thought it gave some interesting perspective in my opinion, and it took apart every zodiac sign and it gave you for your zodiac sign, because that's the rage nowadays, you know, it gave you what could be the magic of this particular retrograde versus what could be the mayhem of this particular retrograde for you and your astrological sign.

Laylla: Oh, I'm curious.

Chelle: So, not that I'm going to go through all of them, obviously.

Laylla: Well, you're going to go through ours.

Chelle: I was going to say, I am, I'm going to touch on yours and mine. For any of you Geminis out there, first of all, I feel you. It hurts right now, I know, we're in this together. But the mayhem part for Geminis for this particular one, we are sharp-minded people and we are scattered as fuck right now. So it is best for folks like us to focus on one thing at a time. Don't put major plans in motion right now. Come on, Geminis, we know there's a time and place, this is not the time nor the place. We need to go over our intentions and and definitely pay extra attention to money. Human error happens, especially with money, in facts and figures.

Laylla: When do we not have to pay attention to money? I mean, come on.

Chelle: More so now, more so now, more so now, Lord. But for you and your beautiful Aquarian folk, let's see.

Laylla: Now, I do have to say, I am, I am hopeful, I was hopeful going into this that it wouldn't be too bad of a Mercury retrograde for me, seeing as my beloved is a Taurus. And so I was kind of hopeful that this would just be a, you know, reconnecting to hearth and home, maybe doing a bunch of spring cleaning, you know, kind of settling in and taking care of that aspect. But no, no, it has been nothing but electrical problems and communication problems and terrible, terrible news left and right.

Chelle: Listen to the mayhem for the Aquarius folk, and I kind of laugh at this because when I'm reading this, all I can think of is poor Laylla, oh my god.

Laylla: Oh, no.

Chelle: Be careful of expecting too much from people and becoming resentful when they don't meet your expectations or rise to your standards. Damn. Damn. Sounds like I'm going to be a little bitchy. Yeah, right? You are going to try to overwork yourself and take on too much.

Laylla: Oh, surprise.

Chelle: And you need to force yourself to take a break to recuperate.

Laylla: Also surprise.

Chelle: That's why I said I feel you, because this is like so you. And and again, something you're not good at, you need to play it safe during this retrograde.

Laylla: I don't even know what that means.

Chelle: I know. You need to not forget to have a life balance in part of your chaotic life right now. You're doing too much. You're doing too much. Working in the office a long time and partying till dawn for a long time, both can take their toll and you need to find the balance.

Laylla: I would like to have that partying till dawn part, you know, I think the the working all hours has been a little bit much. So finding the balance is going to be hard. I would like that.

Chelle: And and the final piece of mayhem for our dear Aquarius folk is, don't get yourself all wound up and worrying about things that you probably don't even have any control of.

Laylla: That's all we do. We worry about everything that we don't have control of, because I'm pretty sure we have control of everything.

Chelle: There is a flip side, this ain't all doom and gloom, you know, just because Mercury's retrograde doesn't mean like your life is over. There is a magical aspect, there is a positive aspect. So as much as I'm, I'm giving you your downer dose of mayhem, the Aquarius magic part is actually really good. Teamwork is favorable right now for Aquarius folk during this retrograde, and hey, teamwork makes the dream work, man. You do have the ability in this period to understand other people's positions and viewpoints, so that's not a bad thing, um, because in turn, that builds strong relationships. How can that be bad? Anything that is creative or artistic, you're going to give extra energy to in this period, they say. But you do need to reevaluate your daily routine and include things that enhance your mind, body, and spirit.

Laylla: I love that you said reevaluate because Jake Register in the Cosmopolitan said something that I really liked. They said, "You need to review, rework, and redo those areas of life that are ruled by that planet." So Mercury controlling communication, travel, and tech, you know, we really need to work on that. So like you were saying, this is a good time to revisit those things and and really kind of sit with your finances, you know, sit with your relationships. Are you spending too much money on Amazon? Are you going out to eat too often? You know, are you trying to save for something and you've lost sight of that? You know, use this time to kind of go over those things again and and really be careful because you kind of have to look at things twice when Mercury is in retrograde because it's so easy to make a mistake. So now's a time to remember, ha, remember, to go slow and to just really look at those things twice, you know, revisit, re-sit, you know, those type of things.

Chelle: You know, it's funny, it's funny you say that because I was going to go to the magic part of of the retrograde for Geminis, and that is exactly everything you just said. For the Gemini folk, the magic's in the money. If us Geminis are feeling bogged down or confused by our finances, now's the time to review, make corrections, and change your plan. Get shit in order. It's a good time to, you know, review how you're spending and saving your cash. Do some self-awareness work. It's funny because for Geminis, it's all about refocusing your financial affairs. Really, the retrograde can kind of affect people differently.

Laylla: It really can, depending on what sign it's in and what sign you are. You know, I believe this retrograde in Taurus affects Taurus, Aquarians, Scorpio, everybody. Well, it affects those four the most, but it does affect everybody, but it does affect different signs differently at different times of the year. So you kind of got to pay attention to that a little bit. I've always looked at retrogrades as a time to just go slower. I'm always kind of bouncing from thing to thing, and it's good for me to have a reminder to sit with things a little bit longer, to look at them more than once, to pay a little bit closer attention to things. So it doesn't always have to be this everything is breaking down and everything is going bad. It can be an excellent time to reflect, to kind of go a little slower and pay attention to whatever that particular season is. In this case, it's Taurus, so it's home and finances. You know, take your time with that and and just spend each retrograde kind of reflecting on, you know, that particular retrograde's meaning, you know, and use it.

Chelle: Thankfully, I don't think the next one's till August, so

Laylla: So we have a little time to recover.

Chelle: So we have a little time to recover.

Laylla: So I myself am having a wild retrograde moment, and I don't know how to explain it other than to say that it's Mercury retrograde, but I drove my car, driving beautifully, almost brand new car, and it wouldn't start. Wasn't a battery problem, it wasn't an anything problem. Got it taken to the garage, communication problem, the people that towed it and the first place that took it lost my information and had the wrong phone number, and then they gave my information to the new garage who then lost all that information until I finally called them, who then lost my information again until they were called by the first garage. I can't even follow this story, it's so convoluted and difficult.

Chelle: I'm confused.

Laylla: Yeah, only to find out that now my car does start, but it's got some weird electrical issue that they've never seen and have no idea what it is and are having a hard time tracing it down. So I'm very hopeful that this gets resolved quickly, but it's one of those kind of mysterious things that just popped up and has had nothing but communication issues on something that you'd think is very straightforward, and in this case, it's just a can of worms of miscommunication and tech difficulties.

Chelle: I'm on a roller coaster ride that I didn't get in line for, sign up for, or buy a ticket for.

Laylla: Me too.

Chelle: That's where I'm at. That's where I'm at. I didn't sign up for this ride, folks. But I did want to make a point that there has been some jabber on the internet. People were wondering and theorizing about if this retrograde was adversely affected by the solar eclipse that happened, what was that, like April 19th, April 20th, right around the time we went right into retrograde. No, is probably my my best answer. And I'm sure, you know, you ask 100 people, you might get 100 different answers. But my opinion on that is that the solar eclipse just, yeah, there was there was a close proximity, but I I think they're irrelevant of one another. There is solar eclipse energy in and of itself, I will give you that. But retrogrades are their own beast. I don't think there's a correlation. Do you have an opinion on that?

Laylla: I am not an astrologer, so I don't really know if the solar eclipse would affect that in any way. I would personally think that a solar eclipse, you know, would have an effect on people just like a retrograde would have an effect on people, but I don't honestly know if they would affect each other. So I would have to ask an astrologer that, unfortunately. I don't know.

Chelle: If we have any astrologers that are listening, if you have an opinion, I'd like to know, because I I don't think so. But, you know, who am I? I'm just Chelle. I had seen a couple things on Instagram where people thought that it was more intense, that this retrograde was more intense because of that solar eclipse, because the solar eclipse was in the Southern Hemisphere for those who don't know, we did not get blessed with seeing that here in the Northern Hemisphere. April, whatever, 19 and 20, there was a a solar eclipse in the Southern Hemisphere and

Laylla: Mercury went retrograde on April 21st, right after that.

Chelle: Right. Now, yeah, they were like a day or so apart. I do think that they both have their own energy, but I don't necessarily think they correlate because this retrograde was anticipated to be a shit show from the get-go.

Laylla: It's the first one of 2023.

Chelle: Right, and it's one that hits you hard in in, you know, home and finances. Ouch, no one likes that.

Laylla: Exactly, that's big for everybody.

Chelle: So, and and it affects everybody. There's nobody who isn't affected by home and finance. So, I don't know, I could be wrong, but I don't think there's a correlation. But people just thought because there was only a day or two gap between the two, that there was some one affecting the other.

Laylla: I think I'm with you. I would have to say that I don't know enough to have a real opinion, but I know that they both affect people. Is it possible that they could affect each other? It's possible, but I don't know. So please, anyone who's an astrologer,

Chelle: Let us know.

Laylla: yeah, backonthebroomstick@gmail.com, send us in any information. And if you have a Mercury retrograde story of your own, send it to us and let us know, backonthebroomstick@gmail.com.

Chelle: If someone put you in line for the roller coaster and you didn't buy a ticket, we feel you.

Laylla: Cuz Chelle is there. She is right there with you right now.

Chelle: Lord. But, you know, as with anything, honestly, it's what you make of it. It's what you make of it. And if you want to make it, if you want to let it turn into some epic shit show, then it's going to. And if you want to kind of find that silver lining and just roll with the punches, it'll be less painful. And sometimes that's hard, I get it, trust me, especially right now. I do think there is a sense of it's all what you make of it, too.

Laylla: It really can be, and there's also sometimes when you have absolutely zero control over it. I would say from the moment that Mercury went retrograde for me this year, April 21st through now, the end of April, beginning of May, it has been nothing but shit for me. I have had nothing but bad news, bad news, bad news, bad luck, bad luck, bad luck, tech problems with my car, problems with my computers, everything is just going wrong. And so knowing this, knowing that all of this is in Taurus and in home, I've made a conscious effort to pamper the fuck out of myself. I have decided that my self-care, my magical routine for this Mercury retrograde is going to be nesting. I'm going to wear my fluffiest robe around the house. I'm going to make my altar beautiful and sparkle and lush, and I'm going to bring in flowers, and I'm going to do all the things financially responsible, you know, I'm going to do a little thrifting, I'm going to do things that make me happy, I'm going to spoil myself responsibly, and I'm going to take care of myself because I know that this is a shitty time of year until May 14th when this retrograde is over. And so I'm going to take extra special time to take care of myself and the people that I love.

Chelle: I got a haircut, that's how I tried to do it.

Laylla: Self-care, I think that is the magic that we all need right now to kind of counteract all the crap that's going on with Mercury retrograde in Taurus. We need to reclaim that Taurus energy, that go a little bit slower, pay a little bit more attention, smell the flowers, you know, literally, it is springtime. Take a moment and smell the flowers, take care of yourself. If you're having a shitty time like Chelle and I are right now, I mean, the blows just keep coming.

Chelle: Like every time my phone rings, I just want to vomit.

Laylla: Yeah, I flinch every time. I don't want to hear any more bad news, I'm over it. And so because of that, I need to take a little bit more time with myself, with my children, with my spouse, and make sure that we're taking care of ourselves emotionally and physically. And so magically, I'm doing more meditations. I'm doing more sitting out in nature and trying to breathe and to connect, because those are the ways, I mean, literal grounding. We're talking Taurus here, people. Sit on the ground under a tree, do it.

Chelle: But I think the flip side of that, and where I'm kind of finding myself, is like, this one, this one's bad, and it's hard to grab hold of the reins and get shit under control. And like, I can't even get it together.

Laylla: When the bull takes off, it's very stubborn and hard to control.

Chelle: Who can get their shit together to meditate right now? Like, come on. Like, I I I'm trying. I had a hard enough time getting my shit together to record today.

Laylla: Yeah.

Chelle: So it's not even just like regular day-to-day that's in chaos, it's like even my magical life is in chaos, and like, I'm just, I'm just, I'm just trying to grab hold of them reins, man.

Laylla: I'm just trying to maintain.

Chelle: You ever been drunk at a country bar riding the mechanical bull?

Laylla: That's oddly specific, Chelle.

Chelle: I feel like, I know, right? I feel like right now this Mercury retrograde is like riding a mechanical bull.

Laylla: It really feels like that.

Chelle: Our asses are just hanging on for dear life.

Laylla: Yep. All we can do is try to take care of ourselves as best that we can, and when we fall, and we will fall.

Chelle: Yeah, hard.

Laylla: Yeah, so I'm trying to make that landing softer. And then when I get back up on the bull, my nails are nicer for when I'm gripping onto the back of it.

Chelle: Right, right, right. You're going to come back up on that bull after this retrograde period a beauty queen.

Laylla: Well, I wouldn't go that far, but I am trying to take care of myself a little bit because you have to. You know, you have to. Go slower. Go slower right now. Watch your finances and take care of yourself. Be a little gentler with yourself.

Chelle: Just remember, this too shall pass, as my mother would say.

Laylla: It really would. And I've noticed that, you know, as I'm cleaning my magical tools and kind of redoing my altar for this time of year, it's very crystal-centric. It's very rock-centric.

Chelle: Earthy.

Laylla: Very earthy. Yeah, I think I need that grounding. And spending time with that has been really nice, holding those crystals, the heaviness, and kind of.

Chelle: You know, this actually goes back to a point from our last episode about Beltane, about how we talked about this was the first time our community would be outside, the first time, the first time your bare feet on the ground and in the grass, and that first like physical connection with the earth again for the year.

Laylla: I'm very excited for that. That will be coming up right after this episode. So, I can't wait for future me to go be enjoying that.

Chelle: I need that. I need that connection.

Laylla: I can't wait for future me to be enjoying this retrograde being done.

Chelle: Oh, I'm so looking forward to this being done. I think it'll be interesting going back to that old pagan community for Beltane during this retrograde. You know, that community is currently having a resurgence of revival, much like paganism itself is having a revival. And, you know, I'm kind of curious to see what that means. I myself am back after a long period of not being here. The community's renewal, it's a lot of renewal in one place. It could be really great. It could go poorly, so we shall see. I'm heavily leaning towards the, I'm a Pollyanna anyway, but I'm heavily leaning towards it's going to go wonderfully side.

Laylla: Well, my hope and my goal is that I will be able to meet you there, but as you know, my retrograde has been booting me in the behind to the point where I might be rolling into town a second too late, but I'm going to try. I'm going to try.

Chelle: I love that. So, we will definitely do a bunch of that. So, yeah, pamper yourself. Don't go overboard with the money spending, but pamper yourself right now.

Laylla: And take things into perspective. Take things into perspective and review, renew, you know, all those R words we used.

Chelle: Yeah. And if you don't have time or are not in the head space to meditate like Chelle said, at least breathe. Go sit against a tree, sit on a rock, redo your altar, make it a little crystal and earth heavy, and take that minute to yourself and breathe if you can. You know, that's the best way to align yourself and connect and center yourself. We all need that right now. This retrograde is kicking a lot of people's asses. If it's going great for you, more power to you. May it continue. May we all learn your secrets. But if it's not, we are with you, sister. We are here. We feel you. And I hope we all get through it better people on the other end, hopefully.

Laylla: Lord, it can't get any worse.

Chelle: Oh, don't say that.

Laylla: Knock on wood. Don't tempt fate. I'm knocking on wood for all I'm worth over here.

Chelle: So, folks, just remember, May 14th, we can make it. I'm going to make it. You're going to make it. We're all going to make it. And we don't even have to think about it again until August.

Laylla: Oh, yes. And then let the summer begin. So, here's to all of us making it through to May 14th. We will see you next Friday for Back on the Broomstick when we are more of the way through, and hopefully things will be looking up. Hopefully see the light at the end of the Mercury retrograde tunnel by that point.

Chelle: I was going to say, hopefully we're on the last flipping tunnel of this roller coaster ride. I don't like this roller coaster. I want to get off. So, please, if you have any ideas for things that you would like us to talk about, if you have any questions, any tips, send them in to backonthebroomstick@gmail.com. And we look forward to hearing from you. Thank you, everyone, who has sent us in saying how much you like the show. We really appreciate it. We fan girl over all of them. And keep them coming.

Laylla: And get through the retrograde, people. We love you. It's okay.

Chelle: We love you. Yes, we're with you. We'll see you next week on Back on the Broomstick.

Laylla: Keep it witchy.
