Laylla: Welcome to Back on the Broomstick, a modern witches' spoken word grimoire, where two witchy friends from way back are reconnecting to their pagan roots after a long period of mundanity. We're walking the path of the wise and trying out all the latest spells, rituals, and magical theory in today's witchcraft and pagan practices. So grab your wand and your incense, your cauldron and your crystals, and join us as we get back on the broomstick.

Laylla: Hi, and welcome to Back on the Broomstick. I'm Laylla, and this is another episode in our quest for a powerful spellcraft summer. Beaches and bikinis have a carefree vibe, but that's certainly not the feeling of this summer. So we're looking for something with a little more hex appeal. And by that, I mean boundary spells and baneful magic, because nothing says a stress-free summer like energetically evicting toxic people from your life and reclaiming your peace, one curse at a time.

Chelle: And I'm Chelle, and I think the best thing I've heard all day is energy ejection, ejecting energy.

Laylla: That's right. Get them out.

Chelle: But, you know, I wanted to definitely bring this to folks' attention because we're living in some crazy times, and we need some boundaries set. And, you know, sometimes it's hard right now to find a safe spot for yourself and your being. And so we want to kind of help you create a safe space for yourself and kind of give that back off energy to those who need it. And with the itchy asshole spell being as popular as it is, we also want to give, you know, those who need it a little extra itch this summer.

Laylla: Mhm. That's right. Magic can be used to help you claim your peace. Magic can be used to help you have a stress-free life. And sometimes, to keep your peace, you might need to do a little bit of baneful magic, maybe a little hex, maybe a little curse as a treat. Sometimes you need to set those boundaries in a very powerful and strong way.

Chelle: Now, let's talk a minute because there's going to be folks that are going to be like, "Oh my gosh, you can't do that." So let's talk a minute. Let's talk about the rule of three.

Laylla: Oh, okay. Yes. Anytime you talk about curses or hexes or magic in general, people will bring up the Wiccan rule of three or the law of three, or sometimes they'll talk about karma.

Chelle: Now, I just want to point out something that you just said that that may just kind of fly over people, but the rule of three is really kind of a Wiccan thing. So I think the biggest thing I want to point out first and foremost is folks that aren't Wiccan don't necessarily follow the rule of three because it's a Wiccan thing.

Laylla: That's right. The Wiccan Rede is a verse. It was written by Doreen Valiente in 1964, and it is, "Eight words the Wiccan Rede fulfill, and it harm none, do what ye will." And then it was in a written in a longer form by Lady Gwen Thompson in the early '70s.

Chelle: Love Lady Gwen. Just saying.

Laylla: This has been around for a little while, and it's it's basically the idea that what you do, for good or for bad, will come back to you three or ten times as strong. It's kind of loosely based on the idea of karma.

Chelle: And you know, like the boomerang effect, what goes around comes around, man. But I got to say, Laylla, there are times where I am okay with what comes back around.

Laylla: Absolutely. And and while Chelle and I don't necessarily believe in the rule of three, we have done an episode on this, we both do believe that what goes around comes around, and that for, you know, I might not believe in the rule of three, but I do believe in Newton's third law. Ha ha ha. Which is, for every action, there's an equal and opposite reaction. That's that's science. Thank you very much. And and I do believe that that applies in magic. And just like in science, it's not exactly 100% true because there's things that will affect that. There's friction, there's gravity, there's mass. Things will prevent it from being equal and opposite. Same thing is true in magic. There are things that will prevent your spell going out from having an equal and opposite boomerang effect. Fate, wards, their magic, your magic, the time of day, the time of year. There's all sorts of things that could prevent that.

Chelle: Now, Laylla, let's talk for a second about what what would you tell I I've got my own answer, but what would you tell someone who says, "But does that make me a bad person or a bad witch? Am I evil?" for setting boundaries?

Laylla: Hell no. Setting boundaries is important. Taking care of yourself—

Chelle: Your therapist will tell you to set boundaries.

Laylla: That's right. Protecting yourself is important. And I very strongly believe that if someone hurts you, you have every right to handle that shit in any way you see fit.

Chelle: Or, you know, I also apply that rule to my children.

Laylla: Same. Oh, yeah. Absolutely. People that I love. If someone comes at you, you do not need to turn the other cheek. That is not always the right response.

Chelle: You don't want to see the other Gemini side of me.

Laylla: And while I am very much a go-along and get-along Aquarius, there are lines. And and people, yeah, and you do need to process your anger. You do need to process your hurt. And people do need to get in trouble for what they have done. And sometimes that involves making sure that they get what they deserve. And just like when you punch somebody in the face or someone punches you in your face, justice isn't always linear, and it's not always perfect. But we work with what we've got.

Chelle: There's a saying going around on Facebook, and I love it so much. "Have the day that you deserve."

Laylla: That is a beautiful hex. I love that.

Chelle: And if you deserve great, you get great. If you deserve shit, you are getting a heaping pile of steamy shit.

Laylla: Exactly. And a lot of the magic that we're going to talk about is magic that is definitely fueled by the recipient, by the recipient's actions. Curses and hexes, part of their power comes in the belief of them by the recipient. Right. And part of their power also comes from the actions of the recipient. A lot of these are sour jars or mirror spells or have the day that you deserve spell, which is like a mirror spell. It's basically bouncing their own energy back to them. So they really do kind of get what they give out.

Chelle: Absolutely. And, you know, just because you are are setting boundaries and creating kind of a safe little bubble for yourself, that doesn't make you a bad person. And putting it out to the universe that you want someone to get what they're putting out back, that's not making you a bad person because you're just asking for them to get what they are putting out. If they are putting out sunshine and roses, they're going to get that all day long. It's up to them what they get back.

Laylla: And if you have been wronged and you decide you need to be the dark goddess of revenge and vengeance, work on with your bad self, man. That's—

Chelle: Sometimes that happens, too. Sometimes that's necessary.

Laylla: Now, most of the time, again, hexes and curses, the way a lot of practitioners will use them is more like we've said is boundary setting, is protecting themselves. And a lot of these are, you know how they say like a an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure?

Chelle: Yes. This is like your ounce of prevention.

Laylla: There you go. Set up your wards, set up your protections. And that's why you should kind of practice your wards and protections even if you don't need them. Practice setting circles, practice setting boundaries, practice talking to the energies around you for protection, especially when you don't need them, because you need to learn to swim before you're drowning kind of thing.

Chelle: Exactly. Exactly. And, you know, I think I think one thing that I kind of like about this is this time of year, especially with what's going on in the world right now, especially, you know, we need to kind of all create our own little safe spaces. And that's how we're going to stay sane through this.

Laylla: All right. So you said safe space, and that kind of reminds me I have a little story for you.

Chelle: Oh my god, Laylla's making a left turn?

Laylla: Again, I'm doing it again. You've taught me well. You've taught me well. I'm all into the left turns now. But this is on topic, I promise. Many years ago, my mother worked in an office that had one person in particular that was very disruptive to the whole group. So this was a group of about 10, 12 people who worked in one large room, no walls or dividers or anything. And this one particular person caused everyone to have bad days regularly.

Chelle: That toxic coworker.

Laylla: So my somewhat witchy mother came to me and said, "Is there anything that you can think of that would help this person leave?" because she didn't want a promotion, she didn't want to move jobs, she loved where she was, she had been there longer than anyone else, and often said she would never leave that office. So Mom wanted to know anything we could do. I said, "This is the perfect opportunity for some hot foot powder."

Chelle: Okay.

Laylla: Yeah. Hot foot powder mostly comes from Hoodoo and rootwork. It's folk magic, so you'll find it in all sorts of different American folk magic traditions. And basically, the idea of hot foot powder is to have somebody get up and go. Either they can't cross the hot foot powder to get to your house, they just feel restless and need to leave, or if you put it—this is a type of foot track magic, so if you put it where their feet go, it will cause their feet to get hot and itchy and make them want to move along. So I combined a little bit of hot foot powder with a little bit of road opener, with the idea being that this person needs to leave where they're at and go someplace else where they'll be happier.

Chelle: Which, you know, there's nothing wrong with that. Perfectly fine. You are not harming, you are not putting any bad shit out to someone. You're just helping them get up and move along, my friend.

Laylla: That's right. So this is still a hex. This is still a light little curse, but the idea is to bring peace and harmony to the office. So this worked. What my mother did is with the help of other people in the office, for three days before this person came in, they sprinkled the hot foot powder under her desk where her feet go.

Chelle: I love your mother so much.

Laylla: Wouldn't you know it, by the end of the third day, a job was posted in another building, and this woman was so excited. The woman who vowed never to leave this office jumped at the chance to take this job in another building and got it and left. Now, it worked so well that people in the office decided to come and ask for more hot foot powder. And of course, it kept working. The next person, I believe it took about five days, and their spouse got transferred, military spouse got transferred across the country, so they left as well. So it worked beautifully, worked wonderfully.

Chelle: But I have a question that's killing everybody. Were there any repercussions back?

Laylla: 100%. And I did warn my mother of these consequences. Shortly after this happened, I moved several hours away from my mother in the same state. And then very quickly after that, I moved across the country. Coincidence or consequence to what my mother was putting out, the magic that she was putting out there? I don't know.

Chelle: You know, I don't know.

Laylla: Right. But the thing is, is maybe there is consequences. The other point to this is also that just because something is a curse, doesn't necessarily mean it's going to hurt someone. This is magic that you did or magic that she did to help someone move along, to help someone not only help the office be more harmonious and peaceful, but to also help this person find a place where they will fit in better. And maybe they will find more peace and harmony in their life.

Chelle: Maybe they'll find a job with a ton of toxic people, and they can all be toxic together.

Laylla: That sounds beautiful and brilliant. That's perfect. So yeah, so so these types of magic doesn't always have to necessarily be baneful.

Chelle: Right. And I I I think that's a good point because I think when people think of hexes and and curses, they're thinking some deep, dark, horrific things that aren't necessarily the case. You know, like with with our summer spell that we're going to talk about, this is really it's not about harming anybody. We're not telling you to harm anybody. We want you to set boundaries so that no one harms you.

Laylla: Right. Some of these other types of magic that are boundary setting magic are bindings, and we'll talk about good and bad for bindings. Freezer magic, freezer spells, that's a type of binding. Uh, and I guess there are some people that would consider that to be a type of hex or a curse.

Chelle: Right. Also, spell jars. Um, and and there are sour jars, yeah.

Laylla: Sour jars, yeah.

Chelle: Yeah. You know, you put some some broken glass, some rusty nails, and we're we're ready to do this. But but I think it's important to talk about the consequences as well because there are times when the consequences they're worth it. Like, yes, let's just say, for example, that you ended up moving to California because of helping your mother with the hot foot spell.

Laylla: Mhm.

Chelle: I hated it. I was I was very angry. But you moving to California for a few years was actually good for you and your family.

Laylla: Right. Exactly. Exactly. So it might be hard—

Chelle: It wasn't good for your mother and I, but it was good for you and your family.

Laylla: Right. And we hot footed you right back.

Chelle: That's right. You hot footed me right back to the East Coast.

Laylla: Now, before you do any type of baneful magic, any types of hex work, even the quote-unquote less harmful kind like I did with the hot foot spell for my mother, you really need to do a lot of self-reflection. You know, a lot of times we do those quick hexes and curses without even thinking about it. Somebody steals your parking space, and you like, "May you have the day you deserve," or, "May you step on a Lego," or—

Chelle: May your tire explode.

Laylla: There you go.

Chelle: I do not do that on Route 128 in Massachusetts ever, I promise.

Laylla: You know, lying's a sin in some religions, Chelle.

Chelle: Not mine.

Laylla: So we do those. People do those little hexes, and that's another good reason to have your wards and your protections and and do regular cleansings because, you know, those little itchy things accumulate even if they're not fully intentional. But if you're actually going to do a real working, it requires reflection. You need to know what you're doing. You need to fully accept what you're doing, and you need to be prepared to put out that type of energy. So definitely start off any type of curse or baneful work, figure out why. Why are you doing this?

Chelle: Another good point to make is these aren't the best things to do when you're at your peak of anger.

Laylla: Right.

Chelle: If you are really upset and you are really angry and you are really hurt, you need to take a moment, take a step back, maybe you need to meditate or, in Laylla's famous words, journal. But you don't want to be doing these things with a shit ton of anger in your heart because you're going to be the one receiving the bad end of that stick if you do. You can be upset, you can be hurt, you can be angry, but you don't want to be doing this when you're like at the height of those emotions, or you're really not doing yourself any favors and will most likely be projecting that back on yourself, unfortunately.

Laylla: Yeah. And and you need to be brutally honest because there's been times in my life when I have been extremely angry, and it was my own damn fault.

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: So if you're pushing out there this bad energy and you're the one at fault, you really want to be careful with that. So calm down, reflect, be honest. If you're going to do this spell out of pettiness, out of cruelty, those are not the reasons to do a curse or baneful magic.

Chelle: Because then you are going to be the one it's ultimately going to be directed back at.

Laylla: And we keep saying that, and I just want to point out that a lot of times, yes, that works, and sometimes it doesn't, because shit happens, and the universe is weird. And so sometimes you'll have bad shit happen to you for no fucking reason. And sometimes bad people will have good shit happen to them for the same thing. And we don't always get to control that. So just understand that just like there's people in the world that we might want to do baneful magic against right now that aren't getting consequences for their actions, sometimes no matter how hard you try magically, bad people don't get consequences for their actions.

Chelle: And you know, I think I agree with that, but I also think that everybody gets their karma in due time, and it's not up to any one of us to decide when that due time is. So, you know, if there's—I certainly hope so. If there's anybody out there in the world, anything that's kind of orange-y, karma will come around. Karma will come around. But here's the other thing. You don't want to focus all your time and attention on just doing baneful magic. You know, you can't you can't change the collective mind, in my opinion.

Laylla: That's a good point. Okay. Let's let's back up a second. We've talked before about doing magic against large entities, politicians, uh, insurance companies, the moon, whatever you're trying to do magic against. Weather magic is one that I like to use as an example. Have you ever taken any type of science class and heard like about fronts, like a storm front moving, these huge masses of air?

Chelle: Yeah. Yeah.

Laylla: I don't know the numbers off the top of my head, but I learned that pushing those takes an incredible amount of energy. To push a large wall of air is insanely difficult. So people who say that they can do weather magic are either extremely, extremely powerful or just getting lucky with their weather magic, because being able to move something that large takes a lot of energy. And so if you're going to spend all your energy trying to hex a politician or a person who has a cult behind them, a cult of energy, they have a ton of energy from people that like them, appreciate them, think positively about them, that's very difficult to fight through.

Chelle: You're pushing that train uphill.

Laylla: Right. So you might better be putting your energy towards small things, you, your local place, people around you, you know, your area. Put that magic, put that energy into making those things better because you can very often have a much more powerful reaction, and those collectively add up to very bigger reactions.

Chelle: 100% agree with you, but I do also, I just want to mention that I do also believe that let's say, for example, you were in a large group of witchy witchy-minded people and you collectively as a group were trying to do something, then yes, maybe. Um, but but I think we're specifically talking about individuals.

Laylla: Yeah. And please do it. I mean, if you want to throw your energy that way, absolutely. People should work towards what they want. But I'm just saying that don't be surprised when you put all this energy into it and it doesn't work immediately, because a lot of times there's other, like we said earlier in the episode, there's a lot of other forces that you have to think of. Think of it with science. There's friction, there's gravity, there's mass. You got to worry about all of that.

Chelle: All I can think of is sometimes it's like a drop in the ocean. One drop isn't necessarily changing the collective.

Laylla: Right. Or that old, uh, Ozzy Osbourne episode where he's trying to build a bonfire on the beach and the tide's coming in and he's, "Back, ocean, back!" You can't fight the tide sometimes, as much as you might want to.

Chelle: I remember that, and he's like arguing with the ocean. I love Ozzy. I feel like I've argued with the ocean before, so I totally get it.

Laylla: Yes. I have absolutely argued with the ocean, and everyone needs to have their own argument with the ocean and succeed or fail and figure that out for yourself, because there's times when tilting against that windmill is 100% worth it to you.

Chelle: Absolutely. Just just remember that, you know, you you are going to sometimes get back, you know, you're going to have the day you deserve as well. And I think that just because you're doing any baneful magic or any type of hex work, if it's warranted, I wouldn't be so concerned about the boomerang effect because if you are coming from a place of pureness, you're good, man.

Laylla: People will talk about adding on the end, um, "If this comes back to me, may it only come in wisdom and strength," or something like that. Or, "May this energy, may the energy I put out only return in beauty and power."

Chelle: That's like me going to Walmart and expecting everything to fit perfectly from the shoulders to the arms to the waist to the hips. Like—

Laylla: It can help. I mean, that intent can help build a little barrier around you. It certainly can.

Chelle: But it's not the end-all, be-all.

Laylla: Right. All right, so let's talk a little bit about what you should do before you cast baneful magic. Before you cast a curse or a hex, what should you do? What type of things should you do to cleanse or protect yourself or ready your space?

Chelle: Now, I definitely, I feel like any magic that I do, I just always kind of do that ground, cent— you know, ground, center, cleanse. I think it's almost kind of ingrained in me. Oh, you're going to do magic? Ground, center, cleanse. That's kind of a given for me. But I think after that, actually, let me rephrase that. As a precursor to that, you have to decide what you're going to do, how you're going to do it, and gather your tools and materials.

Laylla: And if I'm going to be doing something like a boundary-setting spell or even even a hot foot spell or something like that, I'm going to ground, center, cleanse my space and cast a circle because I like that little extra protection. It's part of my routine and ritual, and it makes me feel protected and in a safe space. Now, if I'm going to do a working, if I'm going to do a curse, like if I'm going to do something serious, I do more than that. There have been times when we have done some pretty hefty magic together, and the wards and things that we put up around the house first were solid.

Chelle: Right, and I, I think that anytime I'm doing this kind of magic, I always use mirrors. And even if I'm not using mirrors in the spell itself or the working itself, as a, like you said, kind of creating my little container of space. So I kind of like to set up that mirror-type blockage to anything that's coming at me, go right back to you. Anything that's coming at me, go right back to you.

Laylla: Yeah, the whole "I'm rubber, you're glue" type of spell, beautiful.

Chelle: Who knew that my second-grade teacher was a witch?

Laylla: So mirror spells and bounce-off-me and hit-you spells are fabulous because part of that, it takes all the work out of it. All you have to do is maintain your wards, maintain your mirrors around you, and they do all the hard work.

Chelle: But there was a time way back in the day where you and I did some very powerful baneful magic.

Laylla: Yes.

Chelle: That was a different situation. That, I literally sealed and warded all of my windows, my doorways, all of my pipes, my TV, I even warded. Everything is a conduit to come into your home. And so because that was like a super serious, someone was wronging a family member of mine, and, and I, I had to handle it, so I went the extra step. You know, the salt on the windows. I even did the, the chalk sigils over my doorways. I guess what you're doing, how you're doing it, who you're trying to project it to may dictate how much you want to secure your space.

Laylla: Another thing, like you were talking about sealing your space and portals, and that goes back to the mirror thing. If you're using mirrors intentionally in your spell, any mirrors or reflective surfaces around you that are not part of the spell, many people in many traditions feel that those need to either be sealed, like Chelle did, with a sigil or a ward, or literally covered.

Chelle: Or covered, yeah.

Laylla: Yeah, so that that can't be a portal to come into you, that that doesn't allow your magic to escape before you're ready. It doesn't allow the spirit world to spy in on you. It can be a sign of respect for the spirit world, for that liminal space. Some people also say that it's so that if you're doing a baneful working, you don't see your own shade while you're doing the working.

Chelle: There's things I think people forget, and I have such a funny story from literally yesterday. I am now at a part-time job, which is freaking fabulous, by the way. I love it so much. We're going to wait a little bit before we say where.

Laylla: Okay.

Chelle: So I'm, I'm at my fabulous, fabulous new part-time job yesterday, and my boss comes in. You know, he's kind of going around doing the boss things, and he's like, "There's something really important you need to know." And I'm like, "Oh, jeez, what?" And he's like, "This is the most important thing above all." And you know, I'm going through the litany in my head. I'm like, "All right, you know, we need to keep things clean, we need to vacuum, you know, be polite to people." No. In the building that this shop is in, there is like piping all through the ceilings.

Laylla: Mhm.

Chelle: And the boss said that the most important thing, and he's going to die giggling when he hears this, the most important thing is to keep the lid on the toilet closed so that things don't come in. And, and then talked about how he had all the piping warded. And I'm just like, "You know, even the shitter can bring you shit sometimes."

Laylla: You know, flowing water is actually a conduit for energy, so that that kind of makes sense.

Chelle: So his, his biggest thing is keep the toilet lid closed because you don't know what's entering. I thought it was freaking fabulous. I'm like, "You know, I want to giggle, but you're not wrong."

Laylla: All right, well, in the vein of, you know, toilets and cleansing magic, let's talk about my favorite way to set up a ward, my favorite way to practice a ward. This is the soap bubble method.

Chelle: Okay, I thought this was going in a different direction talking about toilets.

Laylla: No, we're going to go, we're going to go to the cleaning part. We're going to go with soap bubbles. So what I like to do, my favorite way to practice warding and to make sure that it's strong enough is all about visualization. So you're going to find a comfortable spot, and it's summertime, so hopefully in your part of the world, that means picnics and outdoors and kids playing with soap bubbles, because who doesn't love bubbles?

Chelle: You know our Southern Hemisphere friends right now are like ready to curse us for talking about summer.

Laylla: That's right.

Chelle: Love you.

Laylla: Love you guys. Don't get too crispy. But sit, be comfortable, close your eyes, and imagine a beautiful summer day and playing with soap bubbles. And picture one of those soap bubbles at your very center, your solar plexus, like a couple inches above your belly button. And imagine that there is a beautiful, perfect soap bubble right there. Once you have that pictured in your mind, whether you can see it or think about it or describe it, make it get bigger. Make it get bigger and bigger and bigger until you're almost like Glinda the Good Witch sitting inside this soap bubble, right?

Chelle: Meaning me, not— Well, you are, of course. Pink dress and all.

Laylla: And crown, let's not forget the crown.

Chelle: I have the head for it.

Laylla: So get that whole soap bubble around you, swirling colors and all, just like that soap bubble that you're used to in the summertime. And when you're sitting inside, take a hammer—I like to use Mjolnir, Thor's hammer—from the outside and swing it against that soap bubble and smack it. And now, it should ring like a bell and stay solid. If it breaks or pops, you have to start over again.

Chelle: See, now when I visualize this, because you and I have, have done this for years, when I visualize this, I visualize the hammer just bouncing off and the whole bubble going ribbly-ribbly-ribbly-ribbly-ribbly. But I'm a weirdo.

Laylla: Exactly. And that's exactly what it should do. It should react like it got hit, however that looks to you, but it should not break.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: And if it does break, start over. If it pops for any reason—

Chelle: You're not ready yet if it did.

Laylla: That's right. And just keep doing that until you can hit it with the hammer and it doesn't break. It might be easier to just make it big enough to cover your body first, and then gradually make it bigger and bigger and bigger till you can make it as large as a full 13-person coven circle without breaking. And that is a beautiful ward. That is a fantastic ward to put up around yourself before you do any type of working where you don't want energy in or out.

Chelle: Right, right. Now, once we've got ourselves kind of, kind of guarded, kind of in that safe bubble, then what?

Laylla: Here's where the magic comes in. Here's where you do your actual working. The biggest part of that, Chelle's going to say—

Chelle: Journaling.

Laylla: No. What would you say the biggest part of a spell is?

Chelle: Intention.

Laylla: Yes, Chelle's going to say intention. And I'm going to say energy, which I think is both of us saying the same thing a slightly different way.

Chelle: Tomato, tomato.

Laylla: Your energy, your intention, you have to say what you want, and then you have to power it. That's what we mean by intention and energy. Say what you want, push the power into it.

Chelle: So what you're saying is there's steps to this?

Laylla: Yes. Step one, create your safe space. Step two, gather your energy.

Chelle: I, I swear you're going to make me start singing New Kids on the Block. You got to stop with the steps or we're going to start singing New Kids. Step one, one, one. No, stop, stop. But there are things, you know, I think that, that when you're looking at the steps, you want to have everything you need prepared and ready prior to creating your little soap bubble, um, so that once you're in your soap bubble, now you are ready to kind of plot and plan, how am I going to execute what I need to execute?

Laylla: Yes. Now, for back-the-fuck-off type spells, for spells to protect your peace and protect your boundaries, the ingredients are surprisingly literal. If you know what something does, sympathetic magic will tell you what it does magically.

Chelle: Yep.

Laylla: So that's why when you see sour jars and hot foot spells and things that are designed to keep people away, you'll see peppers, Scotch bonnet peppers, chili peppers of all types. You'll see garlic, you'll see gross things, bent nails, nasty nails.

Chelle: Broken glass.

Laylla: Urine, blood, spit, dirt.

Chelle: All kinds of yuck stuff.

Laylla: That's right, because you don't want to be around yucky stuff.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: Makes sense.

Chelle: Exactly.

Laylla: So that's why these things have all those nasty things in it because you want to repel someone. You want to repel their energy, push it away.

Chelle: Another big thing I like when I'm doing this type of magic, I always like to use something, and I know you, you, you talked about the rusty nails and, and the broken glass, but I always like to use some type of, for lack of a better word at the moment, a, a herb-type thing, a, a natural thing that's pointy, whether it be stinging nettle or rose thorns or whatever the case may be. Kind of like that, in my mind, it's like I use those things to kind of create like a prickly barrier around me so that you can't get close enough to me or you're getting stabbed.

Laylla: Yep, that's why you'll see brick dust sometimes in these because that's part of building a barrier, literally part of building that up.

Chelle: Yeah, yeah.

Laylla: So I love that you said, Chelle, that like your ingredients want to be the things that aren't necessarily enjoyable or attractive. You know, you want these people to stay away, give them every reason to not want to be around you.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: I love that you brought up a couple different types of things that poke and prick you because you're going to want to use different things depending on the reason for the spell. If this is an ex-lover that you need to back off, rose thorns.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: If this is a friend or family member, maybe you'll want to use nettle, something a little more familiar, something a little more that you might use for healing or soothing, that you might think is familial. You know, you kind of make those correspondences. And we'll have another episode where we talk about correspondences and things, but that's very, very important when it comes to baneful magic.

Chelle: And it, you know, it goes back to my famous last words: your ingredients combined with your intention is going to equal your result.

Laylla: So if you want someone to literally shut their mouth, maybe you'll grab a cow's tongue.

Chelle: Yep.

Laylla: And use that, and you'll put sharp, pokey things in that, or maybe you'll literally sew it up.

Chelle: I'll be honest with you, I can't do that. I can't touch a cow's tongue. It freaks me out. I can't even look at it. It's weird.

Laylla: So Chelle might take a lemon, something that's sour and sharp. She'll cut it like a mouth on the lemon, stuff it full of baneful things, pokey things, and while she does it, she'll say, "Anytime you speak again against me, may the acid rise in your throat and may the words sting like nettles." And she'll stuff it all full and sew it shut. And as you sew it shut, say, "May your lips be sealed as this skin is sealed." And then bury that.

Chelle: I also use rotten fruit, too. I, I would also suggest rotten fruit as well.

Laylla: That's an excellent thing. Again, the idea is things that push people away. If you want them to get away from you, put gross stuff in it. Keep them away.

Chelle: Now that I, I, I have relocated to a more ocean environment, I've also done a couple of things with, um, writing some things on paper, putting some intention into paper, and then putting it in the water when I know that we're on the brink of high tide being over and it kind of more transitioning to low tide where the water's being pulled away from the coast. And have written some things on paper and put it in the water at that particular time, and then have the ocean just pull it away from me.

Laylla: I love that because that's, that's another example of letting the Mother take care of a problem for you. You're basically saying, "Hey, Mom, I have this issue. Could you please take care of it for me?" And so putting it in the water, writing it on a leaf and burying it in the dirt, depending on how you get rid of it is going to determine how it gets taken care of. If you burn it, you want something fast and quick and hot and powerful. You put it in the water, you want the tide to change it. You want it to go out and change and be transformed. Same thing with burying it. That's going to transform it slowly and maybe make it grow into something else. So depending on how you get rid of it, how you let the Mother take care of it, that association lends itself to your spell. It gives it a little bit of that energy.

Chelle: Now, say you don't, you don't live near the ocean. Like if you had said this to me 10 years ago, I would have been like, "But I don't live near water, man. I'm in the trees." I was told this recently that, and I love this so much, when you are using the restroom and you're having a moment to yourself in the restroom, think about the, the person or the thing that you're looking to get rid of while you are handling your restroom business. And then as you are using your toilet paper, wipe that person away and then flush them. Shit them out and flush them, folks. Shit them out and flush them.

Laylla: I've seen that go one step further where you write the person's name on the toilet paper before you wipe with it.

Chelle: I was going to say, I hope not after.

Laylla: No. Gross. You got to do what you got to do. You got to do what you got to do sometimes. But yeah, getting rid of something down the toilet, flushing them out of your life, throwing them in the garbage, throw those spell remnants in the garbage because that's where you want that person or that energy to go. So think of what you, what it means for that correspondence. These are some more like protect-your-space energy, like putting someone in a freezer or binding someone. In one of our episodes not too long ago, Chelle, you said something that, um, one of our listeners asked about, and that was, you said, "I don't want to be bound to everyone. Don't do a binding all the time because you don't want to be bound to the whole world."

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: So could you explain that a little bit?

Chelle: You know, I've never been big on binding spells because maybe it's just the way I think about it, but I feel like it creates something that I don't want to create. It creates a tie that I don't want. Why the hell would I bind you to myself if I'm trying to get rid of you?

Laylla: All right, so what Chelle's talking about is when we were taught about binding spells, this goes back to consequences of your actions and consequences of magic. Now, when you bind someone, very often in the spell, you are literally tying them. Uh, in the Practical Magic, she says, "I, I bind you from harming yourself or others. I bind you, whatever your name was, from harming yourself or others." And you're wrapping a cord around it and tying it. There is a very strong belief, and it, it fits with the energetic magic, with the sympathetic magic, that when you tie a cord to bind someone, you are literally binding yourself, your energy, to that person. So what Chelle means is if you do a binding to prevent someone from harming or or whatever you're binding them from or to—

Chelle: I feel like I am now tying myself to that person.

Laylla: You have now bound at least a little bit or a lot of it of your energy to that person. So you are now bound to them for good or for bad in, in some way. And so—

Chelle: No, thank you.

Laylla: Right. And so a lot of witches won't do bindings for that reason unless it's really necessary. They'll do some other type of magic to keep their energy separate.

Chelle: And that's definitely how I feel because I have always been of the thought that why on earth would I bind even a tiniest little piece of myself to No. No.

Laylla: Freezer spells are similar because although you have frozen them and stopped them, they're still in your freezer.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: If you ever move or you need to clean out your freezer or you need a new freezer, now you've got to do something with them. So that's not getting them out of your life. That's just kind of pausing things for a little bit. Freezer spells to me are more for a pause when you need something to cool off, when you need something to wait for a little while while you handle something else or get into a better place, and then deal with them. It's not a forever thing.

Chelle: See, I've done freezer spells on family because sometimes, you know, they're your family and you can't get rid of them, but you need them to just shut the hell up. So yeah, no, I, I, I'm all for freezer spells on family, but I also, I wouldn't do freezer spells on random people for the same thing. I'm trying to get, you know, get those things out of my life, not keep them literally in my fridge.

Laylla: Yeah, I tend to do freezer spells on certain family members every Thanksgiving, and then I pull them out after.

Chelle: Thaw them out after.

Laylla: That's right. After I've had to deal with them, then I thaw them out. Works like a charm. Sometimes they don't even go to Thanksgiving. So I don't think those are permanent. Uh, the other one that I see a lot of people do is the candle cord-cutting spell, which, you know, not really a hex or baneful, but it is protecting your peace magic. But a lot of times, they do it very much like a binding. Instead of cutting the cord and being done with it, they obsess over it.

Chelle: And attach it to themselves for longer.

Laylla: That's right. "How did this burn? What does it mean? What does this wax mean? Why did it do this? Why did it do that?"

Chelle: Not everything has a meaning. Not everything happened because of whatever. Sometimes it just is.

Laylla: And more importantly, when you cut the cord, you're not supposed to obsess over the whys and the hows and what does it mean. You're supposed to cut it and be done and just get rid of it, not think about it anymore.

Chelle: And exact that, that, that goes literally back to my whole thing on intention. So if you are focusing like, "Oh my god, the wax looks like a bird," or, you know, you're, you're focusing so much on this cord cutting, are you really cutting the cord?

Laylla: Right.

Chelle: Or are you really binding it to yourself?

Laylla: Exactly. So when you do these things, be clear on your intention. Know exactly why you're doing it, and make sure that what you're doing in the spell follows the intention. Because if your intention is to do a cord cutting—

Chelle: Cut the damn cord and be done with it.

Laylla: But what you're doing in the spell is still thinking about them and talking about them and asking about them, that's, that's not really a cord cutting. So make sure that what you do in the spell makes sense with your intention.

Chelle: And I think that goes right back to you need to take that time prior and kind of reflect and and come at this from a place of clarity and not a place of hurt and not a place of anger or or what whatever. This this is where, you know, the whole meditate on it, think about it, you know, spiritually plan this out in your head before doing it so that you're not being contradictory in your magic.

Laylla: Right. Right. And sometimes doing the spell can be a way to come to terms with those feelings. Maybe you have a lot of anger and fear and rage built up and you need to channel that energy in a better direction to heal yourself and to to take care of yourself. And so you can direct that into something. You know, say you're really upset over the way a court case turned out.

Chelle: Maybe you're worried about your job. Maybe you're up for a promotion and you don't know what's going to happen and you've had some issues at work, but you really want this promotion.

Laylla: And your boss is a complete douchebag and is constantly on your case and you want them to back off for a little bit until this promotion goes through. So maybe you make a poppet of this person. They're constantly on your case. They're mean to you. They say belittling things to you and you really need them to back off. So you make a poppet of this person and you channel into that poppet all of your anger with them, all of your frustration. Maybe you say to them all of the things that you can't say at work and tell them to back off and leave you alone. And then pin their hands together, cover their mouth with a little bit of tape so that they can't talk against you.

Chelle: I was literally just thinking duct tape.

Laylla: Duct tape their feet so that they can't walk across your path and cause problems. Put all of that anger and that energy into that. Say what you need to say, get it all out, and then throw it into the garbage, which is where their negative influence over you belongs, in the garbage away from you. That can help you keep a boundary. That can help you keep your peace at work. And that can help to put up a wall between you and that person to try and prevent their energy from affecting your energy.

Chelle: And doing that can also help you from not obsessing over the issue and being counterproductive to your spell.

Laylla: Exactly. If you're constantly worried about what this boss might say or what they might do at work, that's going to create an unhealthy energy for you and unhealthy feelings at work. So if you can channel all of that into a spell, just like Chelle said, that'll give you much more peace of mind at work.

Chelle: And I think that when you do something like that, don't, you know, I love poppets. They're super fun, but then there's always the, "And now what?" When you are making things, whether it be a poppet or a spell jar or a sour jar, whatever the case may be, there's the, "And then what? And now what?" You know, "How do I dispose of this? How do I get rid of this?" Make that a part of your spell. With poppets, I like burning them. I make a poppet, I do what I need to do with it, and then I cap it all off with lighting that shit on fire.

Laylla: Fire, fire, fire, fire. Fire, fire, fire, yeah. I think the last step of it is the, "And then what?" What are you doing with either your poppet or your jar or, you know, the piece of paper you've written on? You know, it's it's the, "And then what?" piece. I think burying things, um, burning things, I love burning things.

Laylla: Definitely make it part of your spell. I love that you said that because so many people wonder, "Well, what do I do with the remnants of the spell?" You should have thought of that before you wrote the spell. And I like it to match what I want to happen. Like we we talked about a little earlier. If you're burning it, that's making something happen fast. That's putting it out to the universe, you know, that energetically it's destroying it very quickly. Maybe something needs to die in a fire, and that's your energy. Or maybe it just needs to be consumed and go to the universe. It depends on your point.

Chelle: It might just be things that just need to be burned away.

Laylla: Maybe it needs to get thrown in the garbage, like your stinky ex just needs to get thrown in the trash because they're trash.

Chelle: If if it's a jar spell, it could be something like, "You know what? I just need to bury it and be done with it." Some issues in your life you just need to bury and be done with.

Laylla: And if you bury something, that can help transmute it. When you put something in the ground, it rots. It turns into something else, and very often it can turn into something better that can help fuel good things. So make your jar out of an eggshell. Put all your stuff in there so that way you don't have to worry about burying, and it can actually compost and become part of the earth and transmute it. So if you need transmutation energy, if you want whatever this bad thing was to be changed slowly over time into something good, bury it. If you need it to be pulled away and washed in the ocean, put it in running water because running water will move something along, move things forward, or move it away from you. Put it in the toilet, again, if you if you need that running water to pull it away from you, but it's also kind of shitty, put it in the toilet to get rid of it.

Chelle: If you need fast action, fire. Please be safe, folks.

Laylla: That's right. And if you make a jar jar, like in an actual jar, those are are supposed to be long-term spells. If you're burying an actual jar jar, that's usually something on your property that you're going to be steward of for a long time, not something you're just going to put willy-nilly out in the woods. And also jars are mostly for visual spells. You put the spell in there to have a certain look to it so that whenever you look at it or someone else looks at it, it reactivates and repowers that spell. There's really no other reason to put a spell in a jar.

Chelle: But again, like I said, you know, you want to make sure that you're doing the, "And then what?" piece of it. You know, you don't want to be doing any sort of baneful magic and then keep that, you know, on your fireside mantle for, you know, the next 2 years.

Laylla: Yeah. No, you want that out and done.

Chelle: But again, like you said, you know, these are things that you need to think about prior to the spell, not like, "Okay, I did this a week ago. What do I do with this jar now?"

Laylla: And also make sure that you're ready for the energetic requirements of doing a spell. Doing a freezer spell doesn't require a lot of energy. You know, you put their name in there, you you put some energy into it with your intention, and you toss it in the freezer and it's done. But some of these bigger workings, somebody wronged you and you need to make sure that they get out of your life and don't hurt you or anyone else ever again.

Chelle: Then you need a little more energy than that, yeah.

Laylla: Yeah. So be prepared for the the drawing in of that energy and the channeling of that energy. And that's not usually something that a beginner is ready for or capable of. So do smaller spells first. Practice. Get used to handling that energy. Get used to the feel of that energy before you try to do a bigger working.

Chelle: Going back to our episode on energy work, you know, you really need to you need to be able to work with that energy. And if you are new, then you you need to maybe focus a little bit on energy work first before you start jumping into to baneful hexing.

Laylla: Yeah, exactly. You know, and and protecting yourself, casting the bubble of protection, creating safe space, all of those are part of baneful magic, but they're all part of all magic. And so practicing those parts will get you stronger for the rest of it. And that kind of goes back in the beginning when we said like preventative protection magic is important, even if you're not being attacked right now, because you don't want to have to learn to swim when you're drowning. You want to have those skills now when you're safe before you need them.

Chelle: You know, I have heard this, I think, since pre-K, and it's not wrong. Practice makes perfect. You know, practice creating your little soap bubble. Practice putting up your mirrors and your wards and all of these things because, like you said, you don't want to have to be floundering when the moment comes where you need these skills.

Laylla: Yeah. And and a lot of us have that one coworker or that person in the playgroup or the cooking class on Wednesday nights or whatever. There's that one person that constantly has negative energy and is shooting daggers, and you just need them to back off.

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: So put up those energies. Practice putting up those mirrors and those wards to bounce that energy back to them and protect your peace. Protect your space.

Chelle: So I actually came up with a spell. I was thinking of kind of a a an eggshell jar. And I had come up with some ingredients for my little eggshell jar, and this was kind of, you know, along our theme of just kind of back the fuck off, man. I need a stress-free summer, and you're killing my vibe. So what I came up with to put in my eggshell, I've got garlic. Now, because some of what I what I would maybe do this for could potentially involve a family member, so I do have rose thorns. So I got garlic, rose thorns, cayenne pepper, cornmeal, black salt. But I also put in an obsidian stone and a rose quartz with black salt.

Laylla: Ooh, okay. The rose quartz has me intrigued.

Chelle: Because, like I said, this this kind of involves, you know, this isn't just some Joe Schmo off the street, you know, a little more family-oriented. So the obsidian is repelling negativity. And then the rose quartz is to try to kind of foster and create a more loving atmosphere.

Laylla: Okay. So these are ingredients not to banish this person from your life, but more to get rid of the negative and and foster more positive rose quartz loving energy.

Chelle: If I had to name this spell, I'd probably name it, "Stop being a douche, man." I love that. Like, I have no other way to describe it than that.

Laylla: That doesn't All right. Keep going. I love it. This is great.

Chelle: Also, with a, you know, everything I do of this nature, I always include mirrors. So there's a mirror involved and either a red, purple, or black candle. Now, the red and the purple, I again, kind of like with the rose quartz, you know, I'm not trying to like make this person go away forever. I just need them to kind of take a step back and be like, "Huh, you know, I'm kind of an asshole and should stop being that way."

Laylla: I would say red would be for adding a little extra power. Black would be for a little extra protection and neutralizing the situation. And purple could be for sovereignty, for you having control of the situation and for that person being more chill.

Chelle: And that's what I need. I need for this person to be a little more chill. So that's why for my particular one, it might seem weird that I'm using rose quartz as well as rose thorns.

Laylla: Makes sense.

Chelle: You can also replace those things with say stinging nettle or nails or, you know, burdocks. I love using burdocks because they like stick to you. They're prickly and stick to you. So it's like that love keeps on giving.

Laylla: Or that lesson. Burdocks are great if they need to learn a lesson and have it stick.

Chelle: Exactly. So these are kind of components that I I came up with specifically for for the type of thing that I'm looking to do. But again, you know, you can kind of replace anything out with something that suits you or your need a little better. Just because I'm using the the rose quartz and the rose thorns, you might want to use no stones at all and all stinging nettle.

Laylla: Maybe you want to use sulfur. You can use match heads sulfur to You can use any type of urine, cat urine particularly, cat poo and cat urine I find a lot in baneful spells. You can use vinegar. Vinegar is another one to get rid of somebody. I've seen people make a like almost like a tea out of heating up vinegar and putting in baneful herbs, which just sounds awful.

Chelle: In a pinch, before I've used Windex, not going to lie.

Laylla: Clean them right out of your life. Plus, it's got that vinegar in it. It's great. Blue for chill. Perfect. I love Windex. But anything bitter, mustard seeds, screws,

Chelle: Licorice is a good one.

Laylla: and graveyard dirt. A lot of people will talk about using graveyard dirt. Quick disclaimer, don't take graveyard dirt if you're not allowed to be there. Like, please don't go to Salem and start scraping up graveyard dirt. You're going to get in big trouble.

Chelle: Like big trouble.

Laylla: Right? But graveyard dirt from an ancestor is wonderful protection. There's all sorts of different reasons why you might take graveyard dirt and why it's really good. But it's very powerful, and you should do all sorts of things before you take the graveyard dirt. But instead of graveyard dirt, I have two different things that you can use that are a little less potent, but sometimes you might want that.

Chelle: Do tell.

Laylla: So you can take a little bit of dirt from a dead plant, Chelle.

Chelle: Hey, mine mine is living right now, by the way.

Laylla: Oh, good.

Chelle: All of them.

Laylla: So graveyard dirt can be substituted with dirt from a dead plant, or it can also be substituted with dirt that is under or near roadkill.

Chelle: Oh, that's a good one. I never thought of that.

Laylla: So those will work as well.

Chelle: You know, one thing I used to do, I had one time I had this ex-husband who used to like pee outside all the time. He was a weirdo. I don't know. Can't explain it. And I have actually gone out before and dug up and in in the backyard of my house dug up some of that dirt that had literally been peed in and used it.

Laylla: Oh, against him or against someone else?

Chelle: Moving on.

Laylla: Caution where you leave your taglocks, people. So those are all sorts of wonderful things to put in the shell. So so what else with your shell spell, Chelle?

Chelle: Um, I like what you did there. Yeah, yeah. So smart. So the last piece of it was writing, and I I had chose, and you know me, I do not ever write in black ink, but for this type of magic, I would write in black ink on the white eggshell. It might be a name. It might be a phrase. Like, it's an eggshell. It's not like you're writing out a whole spell on an eggshell here. So just something that's kind of poignant to that spell. For me, it would particularly be a name, um, but you could doctor it any way you want. And then literally just bury it in the yard with all of those things in it. Now, of course, you're thinking to yourself, "Well, you know, you don't want to bury stones," and and there's a caveat with the candle too. The stones in the candle, what I would do with that is not necessarily put it in the shell, but what I've done before is I have buried the eggshell, and then on, you know, replace the dirt you bury it, put the dirt back over it, you're back to flush land again. I have burned the candle above where it was buried.

Laylla: Oh, I like that.

Chelle: And had kind of the stones placed around the candle. And when I do this type of thing, I do not cleanse and reuse the stones. I do get rid of them.

Laylla: Depending on the working, sometimes you can't cleanse that at all.

Chelle: Right. Right.

Laylla: I like that you put the name on the shell. In a lot of these spells, you want to add something called a taglock. And what that is is something that identifies the person that the spell is intended to hit. So a name, their name. Names are very powerful. If you put their name in there, that works. If you don't know their name, write everything you can think of about them.

Chelle: Like a description almost, yeah.

Laylla: Concentrate on that person. Concentrate on what they did. Concentrate on following energetically back what they did to that person and write it down as much as you can. That's enough of a taglock. If you've got their hair, their spit, bodily fluids, blood, skin, all of those things work. Threads from clothing that they wear regularly, makeup that they use all the time, their favorite pen, you know, something that is intrinsically associated with that person is a taglock. And so you can use that for the spell to directly go to that person. Now, if you were doing this type of thing, what would be some ingredients that you might use and how might you put them together?

Laylla: Well, we named a lot of them. Uh, I'm very literal, and and for spells like this, I tend to use a lot of chilies and a lot of get away from me type stuff. I don't tend to do a lot of this type of spell because I'm more of a put the mirrors up, put up my wards, and walk on with my life. I have too much going on to worry about some petty asshole. So I put up the mirrors. They get whatever they put out. Doesn't affect me. That's actually Let's talk about that real quick. That's actually a really good point because a big part of this magic is accepting it or not accepting it.

Chelle: You said that before. Part of it is is you believing in it. And if you think that if you totally believe in it or not, that's going to affect the spell.

Laylla: I have utmost confidence in my wards and my protections and my cleansing. So I seriously doubt you're going to get past my ancestors, my wards, my spirit guardians. So I'm not too worried about it. But if I was, and I felt that I needed to do some baneful magic towards someone, I do like peppers. I like hot. I like stinging. I like it to leave a mark, and I like it to make a point. So I will put a lot of pointy things in there.

Chelle: Sounds like a fun night at your house.

Laylla: Oh, you've been there. You know. It is a good time. I also like to send that energy into an egregore. So one thing I have done in the past with someone who particularly needed to learn their own lessons is I have done a spell like this with the peppers, the vinegar, the nasty tea, the cat urine, the spiky things, and I put it in a spell, directed it towards them.

Chelle: We totally need to do an episode on how you collect cat urine because I'm curious.

Laylla: You've got clumping litter. There's your episode.

Chelle: Nice. Nice.

Laylla: But, yeah. So you send that energy out to them. But like you said with the burdocks, you want that to stick to them and have that kind of follow them around. So I like to put that energy into an egregore, into a thoughtform. Uh, sometimes it's a dragon. Sometimes it's another entity. And that follows that person and is almost like a angels and devils on your shoulder.

Chelle: Oh, yeah.

Laylla: So it's almost like whenever that person does anything negative or does anything negative that could come back to me or whoever I'm trying to protect, the egregore will send that energy to them. It makes sure that that energy returns to that person.

Chelle: Gets right back to them.

Laylla: Right. There have been very rare times when I've felt the need to actually bury somebody 6 ft under.

Chelle: Now, I think it's also important to note that not every person is attacking you. Not everything is some magical plot against you, and sometimes shit just is.

Laylla: Yeah. And most hexes and curses are the evil eye kind. They're the, you know, somebody cut you off in traffic and you shoot a little negative energy their way, or you cut someone off in traffic and they shoot a little negative energy your way. Most of them are kind of that. Small, can still hurt, can still cause problems. But to do a big curse or a big working, it requires sustained large amounts of energy.

Chelle: And you've got to decide whether or not that's worth your energy because honestly, sometimes you're so caught up in the emotion of it in the moment that you think it's worth it, and it's just not. If you're giving them your time and your energy, you're also feeding into what they're doing. So it's it's the same exact thing. You know, you want to kind of put out that people are going to get back what they put at you, but in the same respect, you don't want to feed into their magic.

Laylla: Or feed into your own fears.

Chelle: Or feed into your own fears, absolutely. Because that is something that magic isn't going to help you with.

Laylla: And that goes back to the reflecting. You know, why do you want to do this, or why do you think someone is doing that to you? Kind of go through that, dissect that, see how you can handle it. Sometimes the first spell that you need to reach for is a restraining order and not magic.

Chelle: Yeah. Yeah. Um, unfortunately, sometimes. Not always. Yeah.

Laylla: For me, a lot of it is about keeping my peace. I don't want to have to deal with that. But again, I'm not in a lot of situations where I need to worry about doing big baneful magic. I am lucky enough and privileged enough in my life right now that if I keep my wards up, if I take care of everything, I don't really have to worry about it. Yeah, I'm pretty good. So, that might not be true for other people. If the situation in your life is a lot more volatile, that's going to be different.

Chelle: So, I think that the the biggest thing is always I always go back to this. It's it's your intention and what you are energetically putting into this.

Laylla: Yep, put in that energy. Decide what you want out of it. What is the result that you really want? Do you really want them out of your life, or are you looking for reconciliation? Is this person really shitty, or maybe do you need to respect boundaries a little better, you know? Or maybe it is all them. I don't know. But think about it, and then keep your peace. Set up your boundaries. It's okay to do that. It's actually good to do that. You should set boundaries. It is okay to be angry. It's okay to be mad. It's okay to feel these things and to work through that however works best for you.

Chelle: You just need to decide whether or not it's something you should be lashing out or working on.

Laylla: Yeah, there you That's That's beautiful. With that lovely advice from Chelle, thank you all so much for listening to this episode of Back on the Broomstick. Hopefully, you don't have anyone in your life that needs to be hexed or banished.

Chelle: But if you do, we got you.

Laylla: We got you. We got some ideas. So, stay tuned. We're going to have more spellcraft summer episodes coming up, including a three-part series on spellwork, correspondences, writing spells, and how to power your spells.

Chelle: Oh, I'm so excited. I love summer magic time. I feel like it's the most magical time of the year.

Laylla: It's also a wonderful festival time of year.

Chelle: Oh my god, I can't wait. I cannot wait. Festival season is finally here. That means camping! Camping!

Laylla: And this year, not only are we possibly going to go to a pagan pride somewhere on the East Coast, we are also both going to be at Brushwood Folklore Center for their Sankofa Festival.

Chelle: Now, I know that you've been on a little Facebook hiatus, and we all understand, and it's okay, but I just want you to know we have at least one listener coming to Sankofa.

Laylla: Woo! So, you'll get to see wonderful workshops by Chelle and I, and I will also be there for the week following for the Sirius Rising Festival, giving lots of workshops. Chelle and I are also going to be doing a radio show together, which we will put the link so you can listen in live to the festival radio show.

Chelle: I need a DJ name.

Laylla: Ooh, we should have listeners come up with DJ names for us. All right, if you've got any ideas for what our DJ name should be or what the theme of our musical two-hour program should be, email us at backonthebroomstick@gmail.com or go to our Instagram, Facebook, or webpage, Back on the Broomstick.

Chelle: I just I just want a DJ name, people. I just want a DJ name, like, I don't know, DJ Fancy Chelle? I don't know. Come up with something good for me.

Laylla: Hot Hecate on the airwaves? I don't know. Something. We need DJ names, something good. So, yeah, if you've got any ideas, send them in to us.

Chelle: With that being said, it's time to start packing, so...

Laylla: It's a little early, but I know how you pack. So, yeah, you better get...

Chelle: I don't want to forget stuff. Anything you need, I got you. Anything you need. Whether it's you need like a saw, I've got it in the trunk of my car.

Laylla: I think I needed a sewing machine once and you had it, so, yeah, I believe it. Or no, that was me.

Chelle: I take everything camping, man. That's right.

Laylla: All right, thank you all so much for listening to Back on the Broomstick. We will see you next week. In the meantime, stay cool, be wise, be wicked...

Chelle: And keep it witchy without your skin melting off.
