Laylla: Welcome to Back on the Broomstick, a modern witches' spoken word grimoire, where two witchy friends from way back are reconnecting to their pagan roots after a long period of mundanity. We're rewalking the path of the wise and trying out all the latest spells, rituals, and magical theory in today's witchcraft and pagan practices. So grab your wand and your incense, your cauldron and your crystals, and join us as we get back on the broomstick.

Laylla: Hi, and welcome to Back on the Broomstick. I'm Laylla, and this is part one of our three-part series on spellcrafting. In this episode, we talk about spell components and correspondences. What do you need, what do they mean, and why are they part of spellcraft?

Chelle: And I'm Chelle, and I am so excited because I think that this is going to be super fun. We're going to talk about correspondences and associations and what all these charts mean that you find online and in books. And I'm just really ready to get to the nitty-gritty of magic.

Laylla: This is one of my favorite parts of magic is creating spells and finding all the ingredients and everything to put together for it. I have a lot of fun with this. It's very crafty, recipe-like to me.

Chelle: It's got that kitchen witch feel, even though it's not necessarily kitchen witchery per se, but it's kind of got that, let me find the meaning of this and this. It's like a recipe.

Laylla: Yeah. You see it all the time on discussion boards all over the internet. People are wondering what spells do you use, what do you use for this spell or that type of spell. And people like to follow what they see on TikTok or YouTube, but a lot of times they don't know how to adapt it to themselves, or they don't know why they're using the different ingredients that they're using.

Chelle: And you know, on the the flip side of that, you know, we get questions on on our discussion group, via email, in person. I have a specific intention, what do I use? And I think the issue with correspondences for people initially is, oh my god, I have to memorize all this stuff. And that's just not the case. That's just not the case. I think, and and we'll get into this as we go, that you need to adapt and you need to get that base knowledge and then turn it into your wisdom.

Laylla: Really what you need the most of is imagination and a journal.

Chelle: Gosh darn you and the journaling.

Laylla: But the reason for that is because correspondences are all about associations. What does something do? What does it correspond to? You'll hear us say and other magical practitioners say, like-for-like magic, or sometimes they'll even go very fancy and call it the Doctrine of Signatures.

Chelle: That's super fancy. That's way too much for me.

Laylla: Doctrine of Signatures and like-for-like magic is pretty old. The idea of using different ingredients in spellcraft and choosing them according to their properties has been used in many cultures around the world for thousands of years. And we even have written evidence of people talking about different ways to use herbs and other items in like-for-like ways.

Chelle: And you know, that that kind of goes back to, you know, my little anecdote about kitchen witchery. You know, it's almost like following a recipe per se. If you want a vanilla pudding, these are the ingredients you need to add to get a vanilla pudding. You know, if you need a prosperity spell, these are some ingredients you might want to consider to use for that prosperity spell. So I kind of look at them almost, maybe that's just kind of how I compartmentalize it in my head is like, almost like recipes.

Laylla: Not baking recipes, because baking recipes have to be very exact. So maybe think of those more like high magic. But most of this is—

Chelle: Like a chili recipe.

Laylla: Yeah, it's you're going to do what feels good, what tastes good, what's right in the moment, what you've got on hand.

Chelle: And this is where I go astray, and and I'm glad you said it the way you did, because sometimes I might add a pinch of this or a dash of that. And that's where I go astray from sometimes traditional listings, whether it be books, internet lists, what have you, because sometimes it feels right to add a little black pepper, even though the book doesn't say so.

Laylla: What we're talking about is the ingredients that you're going to use in your spellcraft. What do you choose? What herbs do you choose to make your incense? What color candle do you use? Do you use a candle? What other items might you put in this spell? What type of stones, what type of symbols, and how do you choose them? We're going to talk about all of those things and why you would do that as well. And you'll hear Chelle say a lot, intention, intention, intention, intention, intention. And people that are full-on intention know that you don't technically need any items or ingredients to cast a spell.

Chelle: Well, boost don't hurt, though.

Laylla: Exactly. But having them there is definitely a big part of helping you to get into your magical frame of mind, especially if you're not someone who has done this repeatedly where you can just put yourself into an alpha state and and just whip off a spell with intention and energy. Most people need more than that to set the stage, so to speak.

Chelle: Now, I think a good place to start is, you know, and just as much as you harp on journaling, I harp on intention. Step one really needs to be, what is your intention with your spell or your working? Because that's what's really going to determine where you branch out, quote-unquote, materials-wise from there. So you have to think of, what is the whole purpose of what I'm doing? What am I trying to accomplish? And then, probably the next step is going to be, how elaborate, I guess, is the best way for me to put it. And by that, I mean, am I just throwing together a couple of things I have handy, or do I need to go to the store?

Laylla: And what these ingredients do for you and do for your spellwork is get you into a magical frame of mind. It's set and setting. They help to set everything up for you so that your magic can be at its most potent, so that your intention can be at its most pure, and your spell can be at its most powerful. You are basically getting all of your senses in alignment with your intention. You're using everything that you have, all senses. You're using smells, sight, textures, you're using sound, all of these things to put you in the frame of mind for a money spell or a justice spell or a love spell. The way you layer and set your area, your altar, and your spell ingredients is going to put your mind into a certain mindset, and that will help to empower your spell.

Chelle: And then, you know, it could be also, you know, some of the things you may need to use could be determined on what type of spell you're looking to do. We talked in a couple previous episodes, I like to burn things. So, obviously, if if I'm doing something where I may need to burn something, a candle is going to be one of the things I'm going to need to have. And then, again, go back, what's my intention, and branch out from what color and scented or unscented from there.

Laylla: The way you choose those things is going to be by symbolism. We talked about like-for-like magic and the Doctrine of Signatures. And what that is goes back to 65 CE, a Roman dude named Dioscorides. He basically wrote about medicine in Rome, and he said that herbs, that plants, the way that they looked was what they did medicinally. He wrote that the herb scorpius resembled a scorpion's tail, and so that meant that this herb would help with a scorpion's sting.

Chelle: Interesting theory.

Laylla: Now, this goes on to, uh, later in the 1400s, this other guy, now he's fun, a philosopher named Philippus Aureolus Theophrastus Bombastus von Hohenheim.

Chelle: Thank you for not asking me to say that.

Laylla: Even more interesting, he gave himself the name Paracelsus. Easier to say. So Paracelsus, he was born in the 1400s, he was an alchemist, an astrologer, and a philosopher. And he believed that a person was more than just their body, that they were body, soul, and a spirit that connected you to the universe. And he believed that healing should be both physical and spiritual. So he had a lot of cool ideas. But he was also someone who believed in the idea of like-for-like magic. And he coined the principle of similibus curentur, like cures like.

Chelle: You're saying a lot of words that I can't pronounce.

Laylla: The last one is Jacob Boehme, and he was born in 1575, and he was a cobbler, actually. And he had a mystical vision when he was about 25 years old, and he claimed to know the relationship between man and God. And he talked about the Doctrine of Signatures in a book that was called The Signature of All Things, published in 1621. And he said that when God created all objects, he marked them with a signature that showed what their purpose was. And so this concept that the divine has given everything a clue to its use makes up the Doctrine of Signatures. It's very animistic. It's very much everything is connected. Like take this scorpion weed that the original Roman dude talked about, right, that looked like a scorpion's tail. This is an actual plant in the Mediterranean, and its seed pod looks like the spiral corkscrew of a scorpion's tail. It will not cure you from a scorpion's sting.

Chelle: Don't try this at home.

Laylla: Right. But it does have anti-inflammatory properties. It does have wound-healing properties. So it's not exactly true medicinally, but the concept is again very animistic in nature, and that's where we get the idea of like-for-like magic because maybe they can't physically do this thing, but magically, this idea that what it looks like, what it does, where it comes from, the color of it, how it makes you feel, all of these things contribute to what it does in the magical realm.

Chelle: I think one thing to to say is there are a lot of different—people just think of herbs or colors or candles as correspondences. I just want to kind of rattle off really quick a a listing of of things that you could use in your correspondence table because as much as I poke fun at Laylla and her journaling, I will say that one of the first things I did back in 1991 was created my own correspondence tables in a Book of Shadows or a journal, whatever you'd like to call it, because I I figured that was kind of the basis for my magical working was kind of to start getting familiar with, you know, what do I use this for? What does this mean? What does this symbolize? What energies are emanating from this?

Laylla: That is one of the absolute best things to use a Book of Shadows for is your own personal correspondences.

Chelle: You know, I I had all the books, you know. I had Cunningham's herbal encyclopedia, you know, I had a book of candles, books of crystals. But I needed that kind of compacted, you know, I can't be carrying around 8, 10, 15 books, you know, my back ain't that great. So, I think that's also how I kind of formed my own, quote-unquote, magical meanings and magical correspondences for things was experimenting with things, writing things down, creating my own charts. And, you know, it's not going to be just, you know, herbs and crystals and candles and colors. Remember things like metals and days of the week have correspondences, flowers have correspondences, numbers have correspondences.

Laylla: Items like acorns and keys and pencils and animals and all things have a—everything, every item has a correspondence.

Chelle: Runes, phases.

Laylla: Yeah. When you're doing the journaling, I have several questions that you should ask yourself with the item. What do you personally feel, know, or think about the item? Write those things down. What does it make you feel? What do you know about it? Then, write down what is the most common or most well-known idea about it. What does it say in books about it? What have you heard about it? What have other people said about it? Then, the last thing that you should look at is, how is this item, this tree, this object, this moon phase, whatever it is, how is it shown in history, in stories, and in folklore? You know, what do you know about the uses of lemon in folklore? What have you ever heard about anything, you know, there's stories about people using willow switches or, you know, what have you heard about these objects? And what can you find out in history, because a lot of times, that is what will give you the basis of what it does magically.

Chelle: I want to interject with an example where I feel like we live in a divided world over this particular topic. I am going to bring it up. I, forever and a day, have felt that an athame or a sword represents fire. And I know we had this conversation as it relates to tarot, but I'm also talking in a magical correspondence way. And I know that there is a portion of the magical community that views that as an air sign, whereas I view it as a fire sign. So, I think that that is a key example of, you know, take what you find in these tables, but what does it mean to you? What are you getting from this object or from this this particular plant or herb or animal, what have you? What are you getting out of it? Because there are a big group of people who get air vibes out of swords and and athames, and I get fire vibes.

Laylla: And the reason for those differences in the magical correspondence is because of a difference in how it's viewed. People who say swords are representative of air say that it's because a blade's edge cuts through air. They talk about the phrase of intellect being sharp and that air is the element of mind and thought. And then there are people like us who say that swords are representative of fire because swords are forged in fire and that becomes part of their nature. They also say that swords are used in combat, and combat is Mars, fire, angry energy. My point with this is that when you describe an object, when you personally write down all the descriptive words of what an object is and does, the characteristics that you find important enough to mention are the magical correspondences of that item to you. So definitely write your own feelings and your own correspondences first, and then write the known correspondences and mark which ones feel correct to you and feel like they work to you, and work with the ones that you're not sure about and see how that fits.

Chelle: And, you know, I think creating your own table is a good way to keep it organized for future use because I still, to this day, frequently go back to some of my correspondence tables because, you know, that is a lot to to keep in your in your little head when you're got a lot going on in life. And having your own notes about that, and I'm I'm not negating book buying, but having your own notes in your own journal thoughts, your own feelings on these things are going to make spellwork become like second-hand nature. Because instead of being like, okay, so I want to do a spell for inner strength and clarity, but now I got to spend a couple days figuring out what I need to use, you're going to get to a point where you're going to be like, you know what? I need to work on some inner strength. I'm going to pull this candle, this herb, this stone, and you're just going to pull it all together, and it's going to be second nature to you.

Laylla: Another point about correspondences meaning something specifically to you is that depending on what culture you're from, they might have a slightly different meaning.

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: There are a lot of things that are archetypes, and we'll get into those in a second. But some things like, like say the color white. In the United States of America, white is a very traditional wedding color, and it is in other cultures as well. But in some countries like China and some African countries, white is a color of mourning.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: So two very different meanings. The color pink used to be, like right now, it's pink for girls, blue for boys, right? It used to be pink was considered a masculine color. It was just maybe for boys because it was a diluted form of red. It was considered too powerful and fiery because it was associated with Mars and blood and danger, so it was too powerful for girls. And blue was like the sky, nice and airy and soft, and it was associated with the planet Venus. So blue was for girls. So again, depending on what culture you come from, what time period you come from, different things will have different associations, and that's okay. But you need to know when those associations are ingrained in you and what it feels like to you. There are some things that seem to be very universal symbols. We know that symbols can get into our subconscious in a very strong way because some of these are are universal around the world, like circles almost always represent wholeness or a woman's belly. It represents no beginning and no end. They have a lot of the same representations.

Chelle: Crosses and crossroads and—

Laylla: Exactly. The idea of the universal mother is an archetype. The the trickster is a universal archetype.

Chelle: You know, a caregiver is an archetype.

Laylla: Yes, exactly. So these are from Jungian psychology, and the idea is that there are some symbols and ideas that are universal, that all people everywhere at all times will recognize.

Chelle: Have like a collective belief of.

Laylla: Yeah, no matter where you go, you kind of recognize these. Now, some that aren't quite so universal but are still very easily recognized are say, Santa Claus. Santa Claus is an archetype.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: A lot of things will have an archetypal correspondence as well that'll be just kind of an innate idea. And some, you can just put on it yourself, like Chelle said with the sword being fire instead of air. Depending on who you are, that will make a big difference. In our old community, almost every single time someone called fire, they used a sword.

Chelle: A sword. Yeah.

Laylla: In that community, in that space, it was common. But in other communities, swords might be air. So it really depends on where you are.

Chelle: You know, to give an example of how archetypes can kind of play into spellwork, you know, say I want to do a love spell. I may grab a rose quartz that is pink. I may burn a pink or red candle, and I may use some or all pieces and portions of rose. And more often than not, the roses that I I tend to use in my spellwork are either a light red or a dark pinkish color. So, you see my theme here? I'm doing a love spell, and I got this red-pinky thing going on, which in our collective minds, again, you know, red hearts, red is love, red is romance. So, you know, even sometimes you don't feel like it's kind of that archetype it is.

Laylla: And you can add to that, you know, in our culture, pink and flowers and hearts and roses are all love-related, are all romance-related. You can take that one step further. What's romance related to you? Maybe your lover's cologne. Maybe it's a specific food that you like to eat together. Maybe you only wear silk when you're with them. And so those things now have to do with romance and sensuality because those are associations that you have given them on top of what they already have. And so you can bring those into your spell as well.

Chelle: Yeah, I mean, that time not too long ago where I did a nice little romancey thing for me and the sweetums, I put a little splash of the Dior Sauvage in there. Because that's his thing.

Laylla: That gets back into the idea of layering your space, layering your spell with all the things to get every part of you focused on your intention. Aleister Crowley, one of the best books, okay, I say best, but only if you're really a masochist. It's Aleister Crowley. I mean, really. But his book 777 and other Kabbalistic writings, he has a lot of correspondences. There are a lot of tables, and that's where a lot of these ideas come from. And he says in that book, quote, "Since the student is a man surrounded by material objects, if it be his wish to master one particular idea, he must make every material object about him directly suggest that idea. Thus, in the ritual quoted, if his glance fall upon the lights, their number suggests Mercury. He smells the perfumes, and again, Mercury is brought to his mind. In other words, the whole magical apparatus and ritual is a complex system of mnemonics." End quote. And mnemonics are our memory aids, are things to aid you in your magic, to bring to your mind, to your senses, all the things that remind you of your purpose, your intent, and give power to your spell.

Chelle: Those are some wise words, you know.

Laylla: Yeah, he wasn't always crazy. Sometimes he said some cool shit.

Chelle: He had moments. Like my grandma, he had moments. But then he had moments. That's so true.

Laylla: So in the animistic idea, all of these objects want to help you. You're asking them to aid you in your spell work, in your magic. And so you want all of them to be of the same mindset, I guess. And that's like you were saying, Chelle, with the different pink things and the flowers and bringing all things that have the same purpose, the same goal together.

Chelle: Now, Laylla, if you were going to write a money spell, what types of things, just off the top of your head, would you throw in it?

Laylla: All right, I'm cheating because I'm looking at my money bowl. Chelle. So I would put in rice because that is a traditional symbol of money in a lot of cultures. Plus, I love rice. Uh, cinnamon, again, also used to be a very pricey spice, and it is fiery. It lights a fire under your ass when you're lazy and you need to get out there and make some money, get that hustle going. I also like to put in interesting money, and here's where my correspondences come in. People will feed their money bowls with actual money, and I like mine to be real money. Fake money will work as well, again, as long as it fits that vibe, it gives you that intention of real money, that works. But I like to use interesting money. So I have like a $2 bill and a really old $1 silver certificate because they're interesting and different, and I want my money to be interesting and different, I guess.

Chelle: I have I have my British coins in mine. I hear you. I hear you.

Laylla: Exactly. See, and I also like to have star anise in there because I like the star and the idea of, you know, shooting for the stars. And again, that is a slightly different correspondence. Star anise might not be something you normally see in a money spell, but because it makes me think of reaching for the stars, it's in there for me.

Chelle: Now, since you had to bring up the whole money bowl thing, and then I'm going to circle back to why I asked, I actually have one of these cowrie shells in here because there used to be, back in the old days, tribes that would use these cowrie shells as a form of currency as opposed to our traditional modern-day metal and paper coins and dollars.

Laylla: And cowrie shells are also a great example of the Doctrine of Signatures because cowrie shells were used in African traditions not only as money, but also as a fertility charm because they look like a vulva.

Chelle: And then I'm all about color correspondences. So I have two green aventurine stones in here, just because they're green. I also have acorns because remember that day when we were at Central New York Pagan Pride Day?

Laylla: I do.

Chelle: There had to be 10 trillion billion acorns on the ground. When I think of acorns, I think of abundance and and things being plentiful. I go back to that day that we were at that park and there was just acorns everywhere. So I think of that as kind of a prosperous thing. So you might not find that in a traditional correspondence book, but that's kind of a weird shell thing.

Laylla: I like acorns in a prosperity spell as well because from a small seed, a mighty oak grows. So if you want to grow an idea, grow a business, grow your money, grow your savings account, use acorns.

Chelle: Now, what I wanted to ask you was, was there a particular day of the week that you would do this and why?

Laylla: I don't do it on a particular day. I like to do them at the beginning of the year, and I like to keep them for the whole year and then refresh it at the beginning of the year. It's kind of like one of my New Year's traditions. So I don't pick a particular day, but I do have a time of year, I guess, that I like to do it.

Chelle: And the reason I kind of called you out on that is because I wanted to, the point I wanted to make is that everybody has their own way and there's nothing wrong. You know, like you like to do your money bowl at the beginning of the year. Some people refresh it weekly and start one, you know, monthly. I don't necessarily follow correspondences of days of the week. Maybe I should, but I don't currently. But I do tend to follow the moon phase correspondences.

Laylla: I used to know when it was even void of course.

Chelle: I do remember when you used to be able to rattle that off.

Laylla: That was so important. I don't do spell work when the moon is void of course.

Chelle: And now we're like, pish posh. But yeah, so there's certain things, you know, like I will always pick certain things like an herb and a stone, and then everything from after herb and stone is kind of a crap shoot depending on what I have available, my mood, what's going on in my life at that particular point, and how much time I have. So there's no wrong way, and it's not that you have to pick something from every grouping. Okay, I'm doing a spell. Now I need an animal. Now I need a metal. Now I need a color. You know, like it isn't like that.

Laylla: It's more layering your space. It's more layering in these items that are going to help you. This is your team. You're assembling your team right now.

Chelle: I look at it as a toolbox. Get your tools out of your toolbox.

Laylla: Yeah, you're trying to get everybody together. You're letting them know what their position is, what their part to play in this whole thing is, and they're enthusiastically ready to go. They're going to lend you their energy.

Chelle: Like a football huddle.

Laylla: Exactly. What energy are they lending you? Ask them. So you're going to do a spell for, say, justice. Say somebody at work has wronged you or whatever. You need a little justice in your life.

Chelle: Oh, do tell.

Laylla: So you could start with, say, a deity. Tyr. Tyr is a god of justice. You could start there. What things does Tyr like? You could start gathering those things. You could go with Libra. Libra, the scales of justice, right? What things are associated with Libra? You could start to gather those things together. What do you associate with justice? Is it a badge? Is it handcuffs? Maybe write down what you want to see. Bring all these things together that say justice to you and have that in your environment. You could even set yourself up for those things. Wear something maybe that makes you feel like a lawyer or that makes you feel like a judge, a superhero, I don't know. Makes you feel like you're going to bring this justice. But layer everything. So that's the whole idea is you want your space and everything around you to be focused on your intent.

Chelle: Now, I have to go back to the stones. You know, I'd be like pulling some citrine and some amethyst and some clear quartz crystals and be like, all right, these are associated with justice and truth. Let's do this.

Laylla: And the important thing is is that it says that purpose to you. If your purpose is money, the object, the herb, the stone needs to say money to you.

Chelle: And this is where, don't ever bring this up again, okay? But this is where I 110% agree with you on the journaling or creating a book of shadows or however you want to word it. But, you know, it's almost like like a science project. You know, you want to write down, okay, so I used a black candle and I used valerian root and I rubbed some eucalyptus on my candle. You know, you want to write these things down because if this ends up working for you, you want to, you know, repeat and use as necessary. And if it doesn't work for you, you want to be able to say, okay, what can I adjust and maybe what can I use more of, less of, change out for something else next time. So you really want to kind of keep track of this for the sake of did it work, did it not work, and where do I go from here for the next time.

Laylla: 100%. Absolutely. I knew you'd agree. I don't know why. So weird. And once you do have those correspondences and they are working for you, don't let anyone tell you that you're doing it wrong because as long as it works for you, it doesn't matter what they say.

Chelle: It's your spell work, not theirs.

Laylla: Exactly. To add to Chelle's example of the sword being for fire, many, many moons ago, when I first met witches in Salem for Samhain, I became friends with them and I was able to visit them, and there were two different covens in Connecticut. And I was lucky enough to work with them a little bit, which was really, really cool. And one of the rituals that we did, I was asked to call West. And as a little witchling, I was super honored and super scared because here are these big, powerful, third-degree witches who've been doing this shit for so long and they have titles and hereditary shit going back, you know, they they could trace their lineage.

Chelle: They got cords and stuff.

Laylla: Yeah, I was very intimidated. But hey, I get to call West, so yay. Blue water West. I'm good, right? So in the center of the circle is a is a big circular table. There was all sorts of different items on it. They started in the East, and the person would reach to the table and East pulled up incense and did their call. South, there was, I think it was a candle. I don't remember.

Chelle: I suspect candle, yeah.

Laylla: Then it came to me. I saw no chalice. I saw no shell. Blue water West, what's going on here? I saw nothing blue. I didn't know I was supposed to have an object. I didn't have anything ready. I did see a stick, and the stick was forked on one end, like a dowsing rod. Ah. So I picked it up and held it as a dowsing rod and called West. And boy, did I feel that energy run right up my arms. I can almost feel it now thinking about it. It was wonderful. It worked great. I was so proud of myself. I was like, oh, this is perfect. Same. You knew the assignment. Right? I win. Woohoo. Good job. No, that was not to be. At the end of the ritual, I was pulled aside by the high priestess and her high priest. I can't remember her name, but it was the Coven of Fire and Snow, just saying. Uh-oh, this is how you get fucked up. They pulled me aside. I did it wrong. I did not use a chalice or a shell. I used a stick, and how dare I? And that was so wrong and so bad, and they were going to tell me why it was so wrong. And I, you know, piped up, hey, dowsing rod, calling water, blah, blah, blah.

Chelle: Made sense to me.

Laylla: Made total sense. Did you not feel the energy? And I did have quite a few of the of the coven who heard this back me up. Energy was great. They knew the dowsing rod reference, even the ones who didn't and still felt the energy were like, oh, that's why it worked. So don't ever let anyone tell you that your correspondences are wrong. If it works, it works. All it needs to do is get your magical brain activated, get you in magical space to raise that energy and to do that spell, and that's what counts.

Chelle: And that's why you have to write it down in your Book of Shadows or your journal so you can look back when you need it again.

Laylla: Exactly. Because if it didn't work, if that dowsing rod had not worked, I would have accepted my, you know, my shame and Your lashing, your 50 lashes. My 50 lashes with a wet noodle by the wonderful high priestess.

Chelle: I do see how there are certain traditions and covens around the land that they have a certain way about things. And that you have to respect that, you know. If you are going to to be a part of a tradition or be a part of a coven or a group, that to them, you know, blue water West and and there's no no talking about anything else, you know, you have to go with that or maybe that's not the group for you. Right. You don't have to follow along with traditional meanings, but you also have to be respectful that people do have their own version of what these things mean to them.

Laylla: Right. And maybe you'll learn it that way. Like, who's to say that we associate swords with fire because that's what our community did, and that's what we did for years and years and years and rarely did it any other way. So who's to say that that wasn't formed because of that community? And that's okay. You know, that's that's what tradition is for. That's what culture and community is for is to teach these things and to pass them on. If it didn't feel right, we wouldn't continue to do it. And there are some things that you will ask them, you know, say you're doing a love spell and you reach for sulfur, it might tell you, no. No, I don't really want to be in this love spell.

Chelle: Right. I don't want to be a part of your bullshit, man. Right? This isn't exactly the right energy you want to bring to that love spell. What kind of love? Right, right. You know, maybe if you grab in cayenne pepper and you're not sure why, maybe it's because you want to spice up that love. You know, so there can be correspondences there even if the traditional meaning might look a little different.

Chelle: Yeah, I think where it really most recently smacked me in the face about how correspondences mean different things to different people is taking it back to our episode on charm casting. I have since that time collected a vast amount of little trinkets for my little charm bag.

Laylla: Not surprised.

Chelle: And there are things that they may mean something in particular to me, but are going to have a completely ass opposite meaning to you or the next guy or the lady down the street because those charms were picked because they either reminded me of something in particular, made me feel a certain way, triggered a certain thought or memory, and you're not going to have that same thought or memory or that same feeling. So I think the charm bag really kind of put it in the forefront that correspondences are so individualized. And yes, please buy the books, read the tables, follow the charts, but also use your own intuition because if you don't trust your intuition, where the hell you at?

Laylla: Yeah, and and it's so much easier than you think. You already have a list of ideas about everything. You already have a list of ideas and feelings about every color and about gems and about plants and about objects in your house. All you have to do is name them. That's why Chelle's saying put it in a journal.

Chelle: You have to keep pointing that out, don't you?

Laylla: I do. Thanks. Thanks. Anytime. You got to write it down because that'll reinforce it to you. Sometimes you don't know what those connections you have in your brain are until you write it down or until you say it out loud. So next time you do a spell, don't look one up. Ask yourself, what do I associate with luck? What do I associate with success? And then start to gather those things and bring them together, and then put your spell together.

Chelle: And then if you want, go look it up. Go look up what you wrote down and see, you know, hey, this is what I felt and thought. What is the quote unquote textbook correspondences and how do they cross paths at all? You know, do they relate at all? Or am I just totally different than what these tables are saying?

Laylla: Use your imagination. Use your feelings. Let it just let it go. Let any preconceived ideas go and just go with what your gut says and what your feelings say. You are basically creating order out of chaos. You're creating a system to get you closer to your intended result. So everything that you can bring in that matches that intended result is going to make your spell more powerful. So just start grabbing those things that match that idea and bring them in to you and then write your spell from there. You'll be very surprised at how well that works.

Chelle: Well, this was a wonderful part one because we do have a part two and a part three. So, Laylla, give them a little heads up on what to expect for part two of spell working.

Laylla: All right. Well, we've talked about how to gather your items for the spell. Next, we're going to talk about how to put them all together, how to actually write the spell from start to finish. You've gathered the things that you want, you've layered all of these feelings and ideas to help you get into that magical head space.

Chelle: Now what?

Laylla: Exactly. The next episode will be now what, how to write that spell. And then the third one after that will be how to power the spell. Stay tuned.

Chelle: Hate to say it, folks, but grab your journals and your pens, get your supplies, and we're going to talk about crafting your spell.

Laylla: Ooh, some spell crafting for our Spellcraft Summer coming up next week. So thank you all so much for listening to this episode of Back on the Broomstick.

Chelle: And we really hope that you're not offended that I see swords as fire.

Laylla: I don't think anybody is. Join us next week for part two of our Spellcraft Summer series. And in the meantime, stay wise, stay wicked.

Chelle: Keep journaling and keep it witchy.
