Chelle: Welcome to Back on the Broomstick, a modern witches' spoken word grimoire, where two witchy friends from way back are reconnecting to their pagan roots after a long period of mundanity.

Laylla: Where we're walking the path of the wise and trying out all the latest spells, rituals, and magical theory in today's witchcraft and pagan practices.

Chelle: So grab your wand and your incense, your cauldron and your crystals, and join us as we get back on the broomstick.

Chelle: Hi, and welcome to Back on the Broomstick. Today, we have something interesting and special for you. We are going to take a break from our regularly scheduled programming, and Laylla and I are going to give you an update from the Brushwood Folklore Center. In happy festival mood today, I'm Chelle.

Laylla: And I'm Laylla, and I am really happy to be at the festival. I mean, it's hot, but we're still having a really good time. And Chelle and I did some amazing workshops here. We're going to talk about that. We're going to talk about everything that's going on here and kind of give you a little bit of a preview of what festival life is like.

Chelle: Now, let's start with tell us for a minute, where is Brushwood Folklore Center?

Laylla: Brushwood, this wonderful, it's 110 acres, I believe, of gorgeous space, is in Sherman, New York, which is way on the western edge of the state, right near Lake Erie.

Chelle: You are literally on the verge of kissing Ohio at this place, folks.

Laylla: Absolutely. There's a lot of people from Ohio here. We get people from all over New York State. I do see a lot of Rochester, Buffalo, and Syracuse represented, so hey.

Chelle: I met some Canadians as well, so hey, Canada.

Laylla: That's right.

Chelle: And listeners.

Laylla: Yeah.

Chelle: We had listeners at Brushwood.

Laylla: We did. We do. There's still some listeners here. So hi, guys. Hi, Julie. And...

Chelle: Hi, Liz. We're sad you had to leave, but hey.

Laylla: Hi. I mean, it's just amazing. Tonight is the Earth ritual. During Sirius Rising, every day represents a different element, starting with Monday with Air, Tuesday is Fire, Wednesday Water, Thursday is Earth, and then Friday is Spirit. Saturday is the culmination with the big, huge, three-story-tall bonfire.

Chelle: Now, I think we need to start with the most amazing part of this. You and I did a radio show.

Laylla: We did. We did. Okay, so Brushwood Radio 90.3 FM has been going for quite a long time, and it has morphed now from just a local radio station that you can pick up if you're on site to they have it online. This year is the first year that they're recording the shows so that they can replay them online throughout the year. I've been doing radio shows for a little while now, and Chelle and I got to do one this year.

Chelle: This was my first time DJing, and let me tell you, you are so good at that soundboard, by the way.

Laylla: Frank gives me a little bit of help every year, but yeah, I'm starting to pick it up. It's a lot of fun.

Chelle: So shout-out to Frank from Brushwood. Thank you so much for letting me have my first DJ experience. But unfortunately, as some of our listeners who tuned in know, I had a workshop halfway through our radio show, so I had to ditch out on you.

Laylla: Yeah, scheduling was not the best. It happens sometimes. So I stayed behind and continued the playlist that we collaborated on, which I've posted a couple places. I think I put it on Reddit, and we'll be putting up on some of the other socials as well if you want to listen. But yeah, you had to duck out for a workshop. What was your first workshop?

Chelle: So my first workshop I did at Brushwood was Herbal Cardiomancy. So this was a fun little thing that you and I fell across, literally, a year or two back.

Laylla: At Sacred Space.

Chelle: At Sacred Space, where we mixed herb throwing with tarots. So it was a great workshop. It was nice. It was a great day. A lot of people had mind-blowing experiences, which I always love. But then I missed the second half of the radio show. But...

Laylla: But...

Chelle: Then you had a workshop, so talk to me about your workshop that same day.

Laylla: My very first workshop was on Charm Casting with Everyday Objects. And we've done a show before, and I'll link it in the in the show notes, about charm casting. And this is basically the same premise, and we went into the history of charm casting and what different charms mean and how to do a layout. But this was specifically about random objects, asking your question, and grabbing a few random objects that call to you in the moment to then cast for your reading. So it was just a a twist on a classic.

Chelle: Yeah, and see, mine was more methodical, where you chose your herbs to integrate into your tarot reading prior to doing the reading. So mine was a little more pre-planning involved. But I think the most fun part of your workshop was the things that people were picking on the fly for doing their charm casting. Someone was picking plantation leaves, someone brought a harmonica. I mean, it was just interesting the things that people were using as charms.

Laylla: Yeah, I really loved it. Some people used their jewelry. There was one I did the workshop a second time, and there was one person here, their name is Gage, and they wanted a few extra charms. So they're trying to pull a ring off, and the ring just was stuck and didn't seem to want to come off. And Gage says, "Oh, gee. I maybe this ring doesn't want to be in the reading." And I kind of laughed and moved on to help some other people. And I came back, and Gage had thrown the charms down, including the ring that they'd had trouble getting off. But that ring landed so far outside of the board...

Chelle: It did not want to participate.

Laylla: Yeah, we were like, "Yeah, it really told you in the beginning. You knew it didn't want to participate, and you tried it anyway, and it said it again, 'I don't want to be in this reading.'" So it was a lot of fun. We had we had a great time.

Chelle: I had an inchworm participate in my workshop. We did a reading. We threw the herbs and and interpreted the herbal meanings based on the cards they landed on and such. And then a little inchworm wanted to participate. So we we had a little fun with which cards the uh inchworm was going to and kind of put a little bit of twist into our reading as far as that went, you know, what does it mean that the inchworm went to this card and on this card. So it was a lot of fun. I like doing outdoor stuff because little weird twists get added that you don't really expect.

Laylla: That's one of the joys of Brushwood is you are mostly outdoors. Again, I think it's like 110 acres. I'd have to check their website, brushwood.com, to be sure. But there are buildings. There's a lot of buildings. There's like the pool house, there's the North Pavilion, there's a stage. You know, there's cabins that you can rent. But a lot of it is open, and so you get a variety of covered areas where you can have workshops. Or like, Chelle, your your workshops were over in what's called the East Shire, which is a a nice big field that over has some uh seasonal campers and some rental cabins.

Chelle: We're just under like a 10 by 20 tent.

Laylla: Yeah, exactly. So and it's a really nice spot. And where I usually do my workshops is called the Storytellers Pavilion, and that is right near the radio station, and it's um it's more of a...

Chelle: Like a picnic pavilion.

Laylla: Like a picnic pavilion. Basically like the covered tent that you used, only like permanent, made out of wood.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: Yeah, it's a nice spot. This one has electric, so, you know, I tend to do my notes on my laptop, so it's nice that I can plug it in if I need to. Chelle is fabulously known for note cards.

Chelle: Paper notes.

Laylla: That's right.

Chelle: Note cards, paper notes. I write 3 by 5 index cards. I love them.

Laylla: She does, and I make slideshows. So that tells you something. But I do also write it in my I love...

Chelle: Nerd.

Laylla: Yeah. Yeah, okay, I am. It's true. Um, but I do love journaling, especially here, doing my sigils every day and tarot pulls and journaling about all of it. There's just so much stuff. And I absolutely adore looking back through old journal entries from, you know, a year ago or 2 years ago or 5 years ago from when I was here and and kind of looking at all of it again and and seeing what things kind of changed.

Chelle: Or don't change.

Laylla: Or don't change, like the Roundhouse and the drumming, which is absolutely fabulous every single night. Not only is there a ritual to each element, but after the ritual, they go to Okay. Well, let me back up. Every element has their own space at Brushwood, and they have their own small fire circle. They're dedicated to that element. So each ritual is held there, but then there's the Roundhouse, which is the oldest site of all of them, and it is also the biggest, and that's where the drumming happens and the main fire every night, whether it's fire ritual or not. And Fire Tribe at Brushwood is is part of the fire safety, fire building. Um, they're not just the elemental tribe, they also take care of everything fire-related, fire spinners...

Chelle: They're like the Brushwood fire gods.

Laylla: That's right, exactly. Yes, they are.

Chelle: And if you are not a part of the Fire Tribe, you do not touch that fire.

Laylla: And somehow, as soon as you become part of Fire Tribe, you get sexy and hot as hell. I'm not sure how that happens. Yeah. Yeah, it's just amazing.

Chelle: Wait. Wait. That makes me think we should join Fire Tribe.

Laylla: Yeah, I don't know if I'm qualified, but I'll work on that. We'll we'll try.

Chelle: Yeah, but we'd be sexy and hot as hell.

Laylla: We would, but it's a lot of work in the hot sun. Like, they're slinging chainsaws and big huge trees and logs, building these fires every single...

Chelle: Fires like I've never seen in my life.

Laylla: So with great hotness comes great responsibility. That's just the way of the world.

Chelle: Ah, damn it.

Laylla: So after each ritual, no matter what element it is, everybody goes back to the fire circle, and there's a big bonfire there. There's tons of drumming and dancing, and there is what's called first shift, second shift, and third shift. So first shift is in the morning or morning, first shift is about 10:00 at night, right after sunset, and that's the fire lighting and...

Chelle: Early birds.

Laylla: Early birds. That's the families, the kids. Everybody's just a little drumming. Everything's nice. Then there's usually a lull right around midnight. And out comes second shift. This is grown-up...

Chelle: Dun dun dun. Dun dun dun.

Laylla: Yeah. Drumming gets faster, the dancing gets wilder, the outfits get more amazing, and, you know, there's usually some adult beverages and things going round. Maybe a little cannabis.

Chelle: Don't tell the kids.

Laylla: No. No. No. They should all be in bed by now. Curfew, thank you. Then comes third shift right around 3:00 AM or so, and third shift will go to dawn and beyond. You fall asleep every night, if you go to sleep, to drumming at Brushwood, and it is fabulous.

Chelle: You know, there's nothing like that first night I went out at like, I don't even know what time, I woke up, I had to have a cigarette, you know how it goes. It was like 4:30 in the morning, and I'm like, "They're still drumming. This is the life. This is the life."

Laylla: 4:30. Yeah, that would be peak drumming time. That's when third shift is really going. They're just going wild on those drums, and it it does not slow down at all.

Chelle: And I mean, I know we've done an episode or two or maybe three and talked about festivals in the past, but, you know, I I do want to reiterate from those episodes, there's something to be said for attending, at least once in your life, go somewhere, you know, get with a group of like-minded folks, especially if that's not what you're normally able to do. You know, and yes, these opportunities are more plentiful in the summer, but maybe think about going to a festival next summer or or getting out and doing something with a grander community. Get out of your shell and go meet other like-minded folks. It's fun.

Laylla: It is, and it, you know, it's worthwhile. And I know people live in areas where they don't exactly have these opportunities, and I will put a link to Mandragora Magika, which is kind of the new Witchvox, and that has links to all sorts of places. But it's not complete. I had to add Sirius Rising and Sankofa for Brushwood to that, and they've been going forever. So if you know of something in your area, put it on Mandragora Magika, but definitely check there if you're looking for events or groups in your area.

Chelle: Lots of fun to be had, folks.

Laylla: Yeah. The other wonderful thing about festivals is meeting people, meeting people that have all sorts of different ideas and views and things to teach. The workshops here are fantastic.

Chelle: Unbeatable. They really are. And it gives you It gives you an opportunity to maybe get a little bit of a taste, a little bit of flavor of something that maybe you weren't exposed to previously, or something that you never even heard of before. So things like festivals like this really do give you an opportunity to kind of expand your practice because you gain different knowledge and experiences.

Laylla: It surprised me a couple years ago how many people from Rochester, where I was living at the time, came here.

Chelle: And you didn't know any of them when you lived there, which is ironic.

Laylla: Exactly. I was trying to find them, and I couldn't find them anywhere in Rochester. I had to come all the way to Sherman, New York, to find them. So, you know, it's it's I guess a lot of people are still a little bit in the broom closet. So hopefully things like this can help people get out more, meet each other more, because you have not been to Brushwood for a little while, and I loved having you here so that you could reintroduce yourself to people. I could see people when you would go up to them, their faces would be like, "I know..."

Chelle: "I know you."

Laylla: "I know you." And then you'd be like, "Oh, right." And everyone would be all happy and meeting new people and being able to...

Chelle: You can't You can't replace You can't, yeah, you can't replace the networking.

Laylla: Exactly. Exactly. And I cannot tell you how many pop-up wonderful things are happening. They have music every night. Like, Boom Boom Shake will be playing. We had River Glen, we had Brian Henke. They just have so many people. Frenchy and the Punk is going to play. It's just a lot of fun. There's so many things going on for everybody. They have a kids' village where they have kids' programming and crafts and things for kids to do, as well as a place to play. There is no supervision. You have to supervise your children yourself. They must be supervised at all times. But, um, but, you know, it's there.

Chelle: Damn.

Laylla: You know, we're it's a family-inclusive event. We do all these things here. There's vendors. I know you might have gotten a thing or two.

Chelle: Would I? You know what? I got to say though, I think every listener is going to be proud of me. I want y'all to be proud of Chelle here for a moment because I did not, I repeat, I did not buy a tarot deck at Brushwood.

Laylla: Yeah, she didn't. I am I am her witness. She did not buy a single tarot deck. Not one, not two, not many, none.

Chelle: Zero.

Laylla: She bought zero.

Chelle: We won't We won't talk about other things, like witchy clothes.

Laylla: What Tell me one one wonderful beautiful thing that you got.

Chelle: One wonderful beautiful thing I've got was, actually not clothes, it was a wood burning of a goddess figure that was the most amazing, I don't know if I want to call it a picture, a burning, whatever.

Laylla: Yeah. Michelle Mitchell is an artist here. I have some of her art as well, on paper. I don't have a wood burning, my I'm looking at some because, my goodness, she's great. But yeah, that is a gorgeous piece. I remember we went to the art show, and you went outside, and I came out, and you're like, "Guess which thing I want to get?" And I knew exactly which one it was.

Chelle: You did. And I couldn't even believe it because there was like hundreds of things in there, and you picked the damn thing I wanted.

Laylla: It was the one I wanted, so I knew that was it. It was perfect. I wasn't going to buy it though, so I was really glad that you did because one of us needed to have it.

Chelle: One of us had to walk away with it.

Laylla: That's right. But there are a lot of vendors here, some very creative people, and, you know, that's another thing that you can do is, you know, support artists, support pagan artists here. So that wasn't the only workshop that you did. Now, you did one that was a little more serious. Do you want to tell us a little bit about that?

Chelle: I did. I did do I did, I did do a workshop that was a little deep, and it was more to inspire conversation, and it was called Appropriation versus Appreciation: Walking the Witch's Line. And, you know, the whole appropriation thing has gone in and out of the news for the last several years, and I wanted to kind of open a discussion for people because I think there's a lot of accusations of appropriation out there that aren't necessarily accurate. Um, I think it's just sometimes an easy word to throw around, but in the same respect, there's also that balance of there's a lot of appropriation out there that needs to stop.

Laylla: Yeah, there's a lot of confusion.

Chelle: There is. And so, you know, it was it was not so much a lecture, but to open dialogue about appropriation versus appreciation. What can we do to appreciate that doesn't appropriate or come across as appropriation? We had great discussions. A lot of the participants had a lot of valuable stuff to say, and I just I think that sometimes having conversations in person with a group of people is the best way to kind of get some ideas going forward and get the greater the greater consciousness kind of to come together. You know, I just think that it it is helpful for people to have dialogue when maybe you are a solitary and you are from, you know, you don't have a community around you or a group around you, and, you know, it it doesn't hurt to get together, again, with some like-minded folks and have some, you know, creative conversations.

Laylla: Yeah, and that's another thing that these festivals are absolutely wonderful for is to get people from different backgrounds and get them together and talk about all sorts of things. And from from appropriation and versus appreciation all the way to Diana Paxson is here giving a talk every day on different Norse gods. I mean, there's a little bit of everything here. You can go to Beth and Zeeb, who do the the clay, have clay workshops every day making fairies and dryads. I mean, there's a little bit of everything for everybody here.

Chelle: Now, speaking of fun stuff a little for everybody, Laylla, what was your next workshop?

Laylla: Uh, my next workshop was a lot of fun. We got to play with chalk, which, you know, I'm like a little kid.

Chelle: I loved.

Laylla: Yeah, chalk is great. But this one, um, I really love labyrinths, so I did a workshop on how to create labyrinths, and we talked a lot about why they were good, what they could do for you in your practice, and and then we got into how to create a simple labyrinth because they look very complicated. But I found a very simple way to create a labyrinth.

Chelle: And I didn't believe you because I am like the most non-artistic person on the planet, and you kept telling me, "This is easy," and I'm like, "No, it's not. No, it's not. I can Who can make a labyrinth besides Laylla?" Now Chelle can.

Laylla: Yes, she can, and so can everybody that came to the workshop. We had a great time. So I started everyone with the labyrinth on paper and showed them how to draw it, and basically it's like connecting the dots. I will try to do a short video, and we'll put it up on social media so you guys can see how to do it. It's that simple. But we had everyone do it on paper, and once they got it there, we moved everything off the floor and drew it in chalk, and then we used cornmeal where it went off into the grass to make the lines in cornmeal.

Chelle: And we actually made a labyrinth, I would say, maybe 15 feet across in all directions. It was pretty big.

Laylla: Yeah, actually, that's actually a pretty darn good guess because it was roughly the paths were about a foot across, and it was a seven-circuit labyrinth. So, yeah, I think you nailed it, Chelle. It was about 15 feet across. Yeah. But it's not that hard, and I will do a video. So that was a lot of fun to be able to show people how to do that, especially because one of the elemental shrines here is the Spirit Shrine, and that's taken care of by a group called the Archers. Each elemental shrine, each area has a a different group that's basically in charge of maintaining it and doing the ritual for the festival. And so the Archers are in charge of the Spirit Shrine, and not only do they mow and take care of this giant labyrinth every year, which is stunning, by the way.

Chelle: Gorgeous.

Laylla: They also have in the past built uh dragons. They've built uh large dragon puppets that were built to burn. We have some pictures of us in front of the very first wire frame of the dragon, the dragon shrine. So we'll be putting up a lot of pictures from our time here.

Chelle: So if you folks have any questions about festivals, questions about Brushwood, shoot us an email, um send us a a message because this is truly one of Laylla and I's most favorite places on the planet. And we'd love to give you more information about it and talk you into going next year.

Laylla: Chelle and I, if you show up here next year, we will personally give you a tour of all of our favorite places of Brushwood, happily.

Chelle: Absolutely.

Laylla: Yeah, 100%. We will welcome you home, we will show you around, we will introduce you to people, and then let you loose in the fire circle. It's going to be a great time.

Chelle: I will not be responsible for what these people do in the fire circle.

Laylla: Oh, no. We are absolutely not responsible for them after that. But I am going to get back to this festival and enjoy the rest of it while I'm here because, every moment is absolutely fantastic. But we'll put the information in the show description for all of you.

Chelle: We appreciate you joining us for this un-regularly scheduled programming while we report to you from the Brushwood Folklore Center. So, folks, keep your sun tan lotion on, your bug spray handy, and get out to a festival.

Laylla: And above all, keep it witchy.
