Welcome to Back on the Broomstick, a modern witches' spoken word grimoire, where two witchy friends from way back are reconnecting to their pagan roots after a long period of mundanity.

Laylla: We're re-walking the path of the wise and trying out all the latest spells, rituals, and magical theory in today's witchcraft and pagan practices.

Chelle: So grab your wand and your incense, your cauldron and your crystals,

Laylla: and join us as we get back on the broomstick.

Laylla: Hi, and welcome to Back on the Broomstick. I'm Laylla, and on this episode, we're continuing our elemental magic series with the element of Air. Air is the breath, the life-giver. It's associated with communication, with movement, with beginnings, with intelligence, and so much more.

Chelle: And I'm Chelle, and I'm an air sign. Huh, this ought to be fun.

Laylla: Yes, that's right. I'm also an air sign. Chelle is a Gemini,

Chelle: and Laylla is an Aquarius.

Laylla: So, we are both pretty airy. But we agreed not to say airheads last episode, so I won't go there.

Chelle: We did agree. We did agree, so pull yourself back off of that. But first, before we dive into Air, I just wanted to talked about real quick, something that we mentioned last episode during our Earth episode. We want to make sure that we're clear and that this is put out there. We have a contest.

Laylla: And it's called Season of the Witch. How much cooler can it get?

Chelle: Seriously, because really we are approaching the season of the witch and pumpkin spice.

Laylla: I like to think all seasons are seasons of the witch, but there's one in particular that comes to mind.

Chelle: Yep.

Laylla: Also, we would like it known that if you are one of our benefactors—benefactors donate monthly to help keep the podcast on the air. First of all, thank you so freaking much.

Chelle: Love you! And guess what, benefactors, guess what, guess what, guess what?

Laylla: You are also automatically entered.

Chelle: Boom!

Laylla: Yes, you get an entry just for being a benefactor, and if you do send us a letter that's postmarked between August 8th and October 1st, you can get an extra entry.

Chelle: Oh, a two-fer.

Laylla: A two-fer, but only benefactors can get more than one entry. Everybody else, Chelle has some details for you.

Chelle: So we're going to give this away to anyone who sends us mail at our PO Box.

Laylla: Future Laylla here. All mail sent to our PO Box that's postmarked from August 8th to October 1st will be entered into the drawing. There will be one winner of one copy of the Seasons of the Witch: Samhain Oracle deck. So again, all benefactors are automatically entered, and every person that sends in mail to our PO Box between August 8th and October 1st will also receive one entry. See our Facebook or Instagram for more details. Future Laylla out.

Chelle: Which, by the way, Back on the Broomstick, PO Box 106, Salem, Massachusetts 01970. But we want to remind our listeners, anybody who sends us mail between August 8th and October 1st, we will enter you in, and this is not restricted to United States residents. So no matter what country you are in, if you send us mail, we will enter you in for the drawing to win.

Laylla: The contest is for the Seasons of the Witch: Samhain Oracle. This is provided by Chelle and myself, and yes, we will absolutely be sending that to whoever wins. Send us a letter, a postcard, drop a line in the mail, whatever it happens to be, but make sure it has your name and your mailing address.

Chelle: Clearly stated, please.

Laylla: That's right, make sure we can read it very clearly. You could also put your email address in there if you'd like, just in case we can't find your address. We promise we won't put you on any type of mailing list, witchy or otherwise.

Chelle: We're not that organized.

Laylla: No, we're not. These addresses are only for the giveaway of the Seasons of the Witch: Samhain Oracle. And so, thank you, guys.

Chelle: And you know, we'll talk about this the closer we get, but I might have a little extra surprise up my sleeve for the winner. Stay tuned for clues. This is going to be like an Easter egg thing from Taylor Swift, I swear. Stay tuned for clues, and as we get closer, I will reveal little tidbits of what maybe those extras could be.

Laylla: Chelle and I are huge fans of giveaways, so I can tell you definitively that the Seasons of the Witch: Samhain Oracle is not going to be the only thing in the box.

Chelle: It's not, and I love it.

Laylla: So make sure you send us a letter to our PO Box, again, Back on the Broomstick, PO Box 106, Salem, Massachusetts 01970. And if you're a benefactor, as long as you become a benefactor before October 1st, you are also entered into the drawing.

Chelle: Do I get to enter?

Laylla: No, absolutely not.

Chelle: Darn it.

Laylla: So the drawing will be held October 10th.

Chelle: Because our goal also, I just want to add, our goal is to have this Seasons of the Witch Oracle deck in your hands prior to Samhain so that you can do a Samhain pull.

Laylla: Although, if you are out of the country, I can't guarantee it'll get there in time.

Chelle: Right, right, right.

Laylla: Hopefully, you'll have it before Yule.

Chelle: Exactly, exactly.

Laylla: All right, so we are here to talk about more elemental energy. What are we talking about today, Chelle?

Chelle: We're talking about Air, Laylla. And you know, I find I have such a love-hate, such a love-hate with Air. So I did want to kind of talk about that for a second because I know that sometimes folks have a hard time connecting with a particular element. And for being an air sign, I feel like I have a hard time connecting with the Air element. It's just strange to me.

Laylla: Sometimes I wonder if people have trouble with it because it's invisible. It's hard to see. And so sometimes I think that that makes it a little more mysterious for people. But I'm such a word witch that Air's always been kind of easy for me. I can't—I can't shut up. I mean, I have a podcast.

Chelle: Well, I'm a communicator. What can I say? I'm a communicator. But I think when I think of Air, I think you're right. I just—there's nothing—like with Fire, you know, you focus on the flame, and with Water, you've got the water there, and with Earth, you know, you're deep into the dirt. And with Air, it's like this invisible gas that you are—is it here? Is it not here? I know I'm breathing it, but, you know.

Laylla: Ooh, okay, there you go. And that's what I usually tell my students is breathing it. I really like to bring it back to the breath because that's so fundamental, and that's something that we can control and that we can actually feel very easily. So bringing it back to breath and communication is very important, I think, when talking about the Air energy.

Chelle: And you know, I think that, speaking of breath, that is a good focal point when working with Air, at least for me, because it's the one thing that I can kind of quantify that Air is. I'm breathing, it must be there, you know what I'm saying? But like, the communication, you know, it's also kind of for me thoughts. You know, I know sometimes people will cross thoughtfulness between Air and Fire. Um, but I kind of look at Fire more as action and Air is the thought you've put into it prior to that action.

Laylla: Me too. Yeah, and—and Water is more the subconscious thought, not necessarily active thought, like Air is to me.

Chelle: Right, right. So I—I—I think of that as a very deeply thoughtful and communicative element in, in, you know, kind of a correspondence to the element.

Laylla: Yeah, and another way that people can connect with it is communication also means intuition. It means talking to your ancestors. It means divination. So when you're casting runes, when you're pulling tarot cards, all of this is very deeply entwined with elemental Air. Your intuition, your divination, all of these messages coming to you are coming to you very strongly through Air, through that element.

Chelle: And you know, also, um, creativity, I think of Air as well. And I think it's just kind of that—when I think of Air, I have that like, almost whimsical view, and so I feel that when I'm thinking of creativity in that artistic manner, or inspiration in potentially an artistic manner, I'm thinking that as an Air quality.

Laylla: Yeah, Air is very much about intellect and creativity. It's about learning something new. It's—it's springtime, and we talked before about Air being associated with East and with the dawn. And even if you don't necessarily associate Air with the direction of East, Air is still very often associated with new beginnings, like the freshness of a spring breeze, a breath of fresh air. People will talk about the breath of inspiration or intuition. So it's very deeply connected to those new beginning ideas, even if you don't connect it to dawn.

Chelle: And also, each of the elements is associated with different season, and dawn is kind of represented by that spring season, that awakening, the dawn of the seasons. The winter has pulled back, things are starting to grow, things are starting to pop up, and that is also kind of the Air's aspect of the wheel.

Laylla: Air is definitely communication, and spells are part of communication, ritual is communication, chanting is communication. All of these I associate with the element Air. So to work this into your practice, what are some ways that you like to work with Air in your practice?

Chelle: Breathwork is probably the first thing. You know, not so much now, but back in the day, chanting as well. I don't know how I kind of pulled away a little bit from—from chants and chanting, but back in the day, I would have said chanting as well, yeah. But breathwork is a big one.

Laylla: I absolutely love chanting for raising energy, and especially because Air lends itself very easily to a cyclone, to a tornado-type visualization of energy. So if you pull Air in with the idea that you want to raise it up into a cone of power and direct it to something, your brain, your magical brain, will very easily connect the idea of drawing in Air energy, whipping it into a—a cycle, a spiral, a tornado, and then pushing it to your target. So that's a very easy visualization for your brain to hold on to. So you can pull Air energy in that way towards whatever purpose that you have, especially if you're using a chant, and then whip it into that spiral. It just makes it easier.

Chelle: Air is also easily worked with for me, anyway, during storms. You know, when that wind is whipping, circling back to what I said before, it's almost like because it's whipping, it's quantified and I can feel it, therefore it exists, you know? But the way thoughts can travel in the wind, the way ideas can travel in the wind, I feel that sometimes Air is also a carrier to the next step. The Air will carry you, the wind will carry you on to the next step. So I look at it almost as like a—a vehicle of change.

Laylla: Ooh, I like that. And Air is a great way to carry messages to the universe. A lot of people talk about burning something, and I—I know that's Fire, but the smoke, the idea is the smoke from what you burned carries your message off through the Air to the universe. The same goes for, um, if you're burning incense, the smoke of that incense as an offering goes up through the Air. So yeah, there's a little Fire involved, but like we mentioned last episode, not very much that you'll find in the world is pure one thing or pure another.

Chelle: Now, I had to make sure I pointed this out some—at some point in the episode, and this is a good time. So, do you know what a—what one Air tool would possibly be?

Laylla: A wand?

Chelle: Okay, you are correct.

Laylla: A journal?

Chelle: Ah, you always have to take it there.

Laylla: I do, I do.

Chelle: Keep going.

Laylla: Uh, a feather?

Chelle: Keep going.

Laylla: Incense?

Chelle: And?

Laylla: Okay, a broomstick, Laylla, a broomstick.

Chelle: Oh, yeah, brooms are fantastic as a magical Air tool.

Laylla: I've always kind of had that be an Air tool. I don't know, maybe that's just because of the broom.

Chelle: It's very wand-like. Brooms are very wand-like, and they sweep things away. I love it. Brooms are great as Air.

Laylla: But also, when you think of a witch on a broom in the night sky, she is using her broom to fly through the Air.

Chelle: That's right, I love that.

Laylla: Yeah, so I've always associated brooms with Air. If you sweep out a room, you can actually sweep out the negative energy to clear the Air.

Chelle: Yep.

Laylla: So that works great.

Chelle: And of course, you know, there's different associations and different correspondences. Obviously, like you said, feathers, I'm always thinking of birds, or, uh, my favorite, dragonflies, always make me think of Air.

Laylla: And bees, too. I love the folk practice of whispering to the bees, you know, telling them messages that they will carry to our beloved dead. And those are all properties of Air.

Chelle: Yep. You know, as far as magical workings, I would say my biggest thing, Air-specific, is going to be the breathwork.

Laylla: Yeah, and I'm glad you brought it back to breathwork because I really did want to talk about that. A few times when we've talked about, uh, meditations and things in the past, we've talked about box breathing, where you concentrate on your breath. A lot of traditions will have you concentrate on the breath because it is part of life. It is so vital to life. And so, by respecting your breath and by paying attention to your breath, not only are you honoring the element of Air, but you're honoring life itself.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: Box breathing is breathing in for a count of four, holding your breath for a count of four, breathing out for a count of four, and then holding your breath again for a count of four, and then continuing to do that. And that's just one of many different ways that you can pay attention to your breath and really connect with that energy, and also use that to raise energy for spellwork.

Chelle: What do you do to kind of connect with Air specifically?

Laylla: Incense is a big one for me. I do love to have incense and nice-smelling things.

Chelle: That's a given.

Laylla: I also have a lot of plants in my house, and the rooms where I particularly have a lot of plants, I feel like the Air is nicer there. And so sometimes if I'm doing a meditation, especially one that involves a lot of breathwork, I like to work maybe in my living room where I have a ton of plants, or in this one corner of my office where I have a nice window and a lot of plants. And that really helps me to feel like I'm connecting, not just with Air, but with elemental energy in general.

Chelle: I like that. I've never—I've never looked at plants as an Air thing, so interesting perspective that I'm going to ponder.

Laylla: In the elemental Earth meditation that we posted not too long ago, one of the things I talked about was breathing in harmony with the trees. And even though that was an Earth meditation, getting you connected to the Earth and to trees, the idea of breathing with a plant is very Air-based. Because when you breathe out, the carbon dioxide you breathe out is what the plant breathes in, and the plant breathes out oxygen that you then breathe in. So just thinking about that symbiosis, that cycle between you and the natural world while you're sitting in your plant corner, whatever, that is a beautiful Air meditation and a beautiful way to work with that energy.

Chelle: I think it's another example of how something such as trees or plants can be under dual elements.

Laylla: Oh, yeah, everything's everything else. We talked about in the Earth episode where the idea of these building blocks of life came from, and we know now there's how many elements on the periodic table?

Chelle: A lot.

Laylla: A lot. Our ancestors only thought there were five.

Chelle: There's more than when we were in ninth grade, how about that?

Laylla: That's right. And they literally thought that the only pure things were dirt, Earth, Air that's all around us, Water, and Fire. They thought those were the only pure things, and everything else was made up in some way of all of those things, and then powered by ether or spirit. So nothing's really purely just one.

Chelle: One thing or the other, yeah. So, Laylla, let's—let's kind of jump a little bit to, because we talked about this with Earth, um, and I want to make sure we touch on it with each of the elements. Let's talk about for a second some deities, deities that are associated with Air, because I know that's, again, another thing that—that people are looking for. Um, who do I—who do I call to when I'm working with Air as far as deity? And I mean, I think the biggest one I can think of is going to be Odin, and I think it's because of the whole storm aspect with Odin and how I view storms a lot of the time as an Air thing.

Laylla: Not just storms, but Odin is also associated with Air qualities like intelligence and written language. And his companions are two crows.

Chelle: Right. So how about you, Laylla? What are—who are deities you think of when you think of Air?

Laylla: Well, two of the big ones are Mercury and Uranus. Uranus because that's my planet, that deity is Air. And Mercury is very Air, it's the communication, he's the Air god. I also see the Dagda, in his role as the sky father and father of speech, is very Air-like. Hathor as the goddess of the sky and of art and music. Nuit can be an Air goddess because she is goddess of the night sky, the stars, and space. Hera fits because her domain includes the wind and sky, and one of her symbols is a peacock.

Chelle: Zephyrus.

Laylla: Yes, he's the Greek god of the west wind, and I remember his name because a zephyr is a type of wind.

Chelle: Yep.

Laylla: Some people also say fairies. The fairies, and particularly a type of fairies called sylphs, are also Air fairies that people like to work with, and they'll say that they are associated with that element.

Chelle: I've also seen people associate Lugh with—with Air.

Laylla: Oh, okay. Yeah, again, deities very much are not just one thing. You can call on a deity and ask to work with the aspects of them that are related to your working, in this case, Air, but you don't have to work with all of the elements that make them up. But you can call on different aspects of them.

Chelle: I feel like most of them are multi-faceted.

Laylla: Yeah, like Zeus and Thor can also be considered Air, the lightning thing would be a big reason why, but, you know, some people might say that's Fire. Now, let's just mention the elephant in the room. Okay. Wands, swords.

Chelle: Swords, wands.

Laylla: Northeast.

Chelle: Northeast. I—I understand that we all have different views on which direction Air is. I view Air in the East. I know people view Air in the North.

Laylla: Yeah, it just depends on your tradition, really. There's no wrong answer.

Chelle: The important part is how you honor the element and not necessarily what quarter the element is in.

Laylla: Yeah, if you know why you picked that quarter for the element, that's all that matters.

Chelle: That's all that matters.

Laylla: But swords and wands. Now, the argument for some people is that swords are Air because they cut through the Air.

Chelle: And that wands are Fire because they burn.

Laylla: That's right. They also say that swords are represented by Air because people talk about a sharp wit or sharp as a tack, a keen intellect. So they say that that means that swords are Air. Wands being Fire because they burn, I—I haven't seen much other reasoning why wands are that action, that Fire element, but.

Chelle: To be honest with you, I'm an East, air, wand type of girl.

Laylla: Air is communication, and to me, wands represent communication. There's talking sticks that get passed around. If you pick up a wand because you're a magician or a wizard or a witch, you're using it to cast a spell. You're using it to direct your words, your will. And I know people like to say that swords are communication, but when was the last time someone picked up a sword with the intent to talk?

Chelle: Right. Right.

Laylla: So swords are action. They're that fiery action, sometimes the consequences of that action. And wands are air. But again, if you have a different viewpoint, as long as you know why you have that viewpoint, we're cool with it. That's fine.

Chelle: Absolutely.

Laylla: So, using different tools to represent an element is wonderful. And the reason you do that is to help get your brain, your subconscious, your magical brain, in the framework to recognize that element. So if you put everything around you that reminds you of air, you have wonderful incense going, maybe you have some light music in the background.

Chelle: Some wind chimes.

Laylla: Bells can all represent air. Maybe you have the color yellow or light pale colors, whites and yellows. Some people like pastel colors, anything light and pretty. Free-flowing curtains, anything that makes you think air. Put that all around you. And then sit and have a little meditation and focus on your breath. We'll post a short air meditation that will go along with this episode as well. But I also have a spell with your breath that I could talk about.

Chelle: I bet you do. Lay it on me, Laylla.

Laylla: All right. So, do you remember when I talked about how to feel energy by using the soap bubble imagery between your hands?

Chelle: Yep, we all remember. We've all practiced it.

Laylla: Oh, good. Wonderful. Gold stars for everyone. So, we're going to use a similar type thing, but this is to learn how to push energy into something, to come up with energy that has a certain flavor and push it into something. So what you're going to do is hold up your hands, palm up in front of you, and concentrate on your palms until you can feel them kind of warm up just a little bit. Then you're going to put them so that they're palm to palm in front of you, about two, three inches apart, just like you did in the sensing energy.

Chelle: Sounds an awful lot like Reiki to me, but keep going.

Laylla: It is. It's very, very similar. Very similar. Reiki's all about raising energy, flavoring it a certain way, and pushing it towards people. Yeah. So this is a lot like that. I'm giving away Reiki secrets. I have no idea. I'm not certified. You are. I don't know what I'm talking about. Anyway.

Chelle: That's why I'm just letting you talk.

Laylla: So, put your hands together just a couple inches apart from each other. And instead of a mass of little bubbles like I had you envision before to feel that energy, now I want you to think of a time when you had just one big soap bubble between your hands, just one big one in between your hands.

Chelle: Sometimes I actually visualize it as a bubblegum bubble.

Laylla: There you go. It could be a bubblegum bubble.

Chelle: Because in my mind, I know that I've had a bubblegum bubble that big. Maybe that's why.

Laylla: There you go. Yeah, so picture a big bubble, whether bubblegum, soap, whatever you want, but a nice big, one big round bubble between your hands, just sitting there nice and strong and beautiful. Then, you're going to think of whatever energy you want. Um, pick a spell, Chelle. Something you want a spell for.

Chelle: Okay, how about a spell for prosperity?

Laylla: All right, prosperity spell. So you're going to pull in energy for success and prosperity. So you get your mind all thinking thoughts about success and prosperity, and you feel solid in yourself, and you're still envisioning this bubble between your hands. But now you're pulling into your center, into your belly, success, prosperity, money, doing good, feeling happy and secure in your life. And you're thinking all these things that mean success and prosperity to you. And once you've got that in your belly, all big and strong, breathe it into your lungs. Breathe in, into your lungs, all that energy, and mix it up with all those feelings. And then blow it gently. Don't pop the bubble. Blow that energy into the bubble, like you're blowing smoke into it. And it should be green for prosperity and success. And then just imagine that smoke, that green-colored smoke, swirling around inside that bubble as you blow all that energy into it. And then hold it there, and imagine that energy swirling. Then raise that bubble above your head and pop it on top of your head and let the smoke fall all down around you. Now you've raised the energy of success and prosperity, you've directed it into the bubble, and then you've put it back into yourself to give yourself that blessing. You could also push that energy into a crystal or into something metal or something else so that you can hold on to it for later.

Chelle: Or if you were going to, say, you were doing a spell or a ritual for someone else, you could, you could direct it into a crystal or another object and give it to, to a person.

Laylla: Yeah, or put it into that bubble and then pop it on them. Yeah. This is really just an exercise for you to practice raising different types of energy into your breath, flavor your breath, that energy of air, that life-giving breath, flavor that with whatever energy you want to cast in your spell, and then blow it, literally direct it into that bubble in your hands, into your cups, into a chalice, into a crystal, and then blow that breath that you have flavored with the energy you want for your spell into the item. And now you have that ready to direct so that you can push that energy out to the universe to work your will.

Chelle: So not only are you working with the element and doing a ritual with and directed at the element, but you're also getting yourself practiced more in, you know, energy development and, and energy directing.

Laylla: A lot of people have a hard time working with it, but it's such an easy way to raise and direct energy. If you just do a little bit of breathwork in a meditation, you can really feel that energy raising up. I just think it's, it's a nice way, nice easy way to get connected that people overlook sometimes.

Chelle: I think that when I was a, a newbie witch, I don't know if that's the right term, but that's what I'm going to say. When I was a newbie witch, I think that I didn't take enough stock into breathwork because I, I took, I took breathing for granted, therefore kind of took breathwork for granted. And I don't think it really dawned on me how important doing breathwork was, legit, until I had two kids. There you go. No, but I mean, you know, right from when you're in labor, you know, they're like, breathe, breathe, you know, and, and you kind of learn, you're like, oh, there's something to this breath thing. And, you know, I think that's what really, I think childbirth is what kind of gave, in my mind, validity to breathwork.

Laylla: Makes a lot of sense. If you can control your breath, you can calm yourself down.

Chelle: Yep.

Laylla: You can hype yourself up.

Chelle: Yep.

Laylla: You can help control pain. I mean, there's so much that you can do if you can work with your breath really well. People who are very good at meditation know that breathwork is a huge part of that.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: So we mentioned chanting earlier as a way to work with air, and singing and chanting are a form of breathwork. Listening to music, even if you don't sing, is another way to connect to the air element. And listening to music while journaling, because communication, writing, and words are really good ways to work with air. And we've talked a little bit about journaling.

Chelle: We talk way too much about journaling.

Laylla: Well, journal, we're going to talk a little more because journaling and getting those thoughts out, like you mentioned earlier in the episode, that thoughts, thinking, is, is all also air. And sometimes you need to get that out. Sometimes you just need to do some journal pages, just get those pages out in the morning and just write, write, write, write, write, write. And that can be a really great way to help bring clarity, which is another air quality. You can bring that clarity and that clearness to yourself before you do a working if you're just able to write it all down. Write all the things that are cluttering your brain and just get it on paper and get it out. It's a simple spell in and of itself.

Chelle: Sometimes communicating could be communicating with your spirit guides. Just because you write it out doesn't mean you have to give it to anyone in particular. You could give those writings to your spirit guides to read.

Laylla: Yes. And you know, spirit work, working with ancestors and spirit work is all air. This is all about air. If it's communication, if it's digital communication, if you're working online.

Chelle: Going through the airwaves.

Laylla: That's right. It's all air. This podcast is air. So if you're sitting there, you've got some incense going, you're listening to our podcast, you've got a nice warm cup of tea, and you're pulling tarot cards to journal, air, air, air, air, air, air, air. It's all air energy.

Chelle: Or if they're listening to our Brushwood 2025 playlist.

Laylla: That's true. Air. Well, there's a lot of elements there, but, you know, overall, that is a good playlist. I do find myself putting that on quite often.

Chelle: I do too, actually.

Laylla: Now, speaking of our Brushwood playlist, I do believe that the Brushwood Radio used to in the off-season just play random music. But I believe now they have recorded shows like ours, and they're doing those shows. The pre-recorded Brushwood Radio spots during the Sirius Rising and SanKofa festivals are all going to be played on rotation on Brushwood Radio.

Chelle: You should put a link up to that.

Laylla: I will. I believe they're also going to start having talk shows and a few things like that. And you might hear a couple of your favorite podcasters pop up on there now and again.

Chelle: Those crazy witches.

Laylla: Those crazy witches. So again, I will put in an air meditation as a companion to this episode as well.

Chelle: Now, I did have a little tidbit here about, um, air can assist with past life regressions and kind of connecting with, um, maybe the past lives that you have had. I know that ancestor work is a part of air, but sometimes look at your own ancestry, and this is a good time to do past life regression. Where have I been in other lives? I mean, I know, I know that where I've been in this life, where have I been in other lives? And this is a good time to kind of tune into that or get with somebody, meet with somebody, maybe a hypnotherapist or what not, that can assist you with past life regressions. But I think anything really to do with spirit very much is an air thing, whether you're communicating with your past spirit, uh, ancestor spirit, uh, whatever the case may be, air. It's all air.

Laylla: Well, my, my fascination with meditation definitely led me down the hypnosis path, and I did get certified in hypnotherapy, and I am also certified in past life regression. And I have done some very interesting sessions with people doing past lives. But I would usually associate hypnosis and past life regression more with water because of its relationship with the subconscious and deep memories. But I can see how you'd link it to air as well by seeing spirits and spirit realm as air. Communicating with your past life could also be seen as air, so it's one of those mixture of elements occasions.

Chelle: It all seems to kind of go together.

Laylla: Yeah, hypnosis and meditation, anything with the mind like that is associated with air. Hypnosis a little bit multi-elemental. It can also be associated with water because of the subconscious and that deep.

Chelle: I was just thinking that with, with past life regression too, but I, I still very much think it, it is one of those crossovers, air, water.

Laylla: Past life regression is so fascinating. And have you ever had, um, have you ever done a past life regression?

Chelle: Um, I have had someone guide me through it in the past. Um, I've only done it once before, and I feel like I've told you this before, but can we both say we're not shocked that this person told me I had been a princess in a former life?

Laylla: I am not shocked at all.

Chelle: Because I surely was not shocked. But yeah, I was, I was actually told that I was a princess in a former life in an area that is currently known as Russia. But I would like to delve into this again some other time with you and have you just take me down that path and see where I have been.

Laylla: I know. I am very surprised. I mean, I have done past life regressions for other people in our community before, but for whatever reason.

Chelle: We have never, we've never had that conversation.

Laylla: We never have, and I'm kind of shocked. I would love to do that with you sometime. We'll have to see if the Russian princess thing comes up. But some of the things that come out from that really help people. You know, when I've done past life regressions with people before, it usually has brought up something that is related to issues that they're having in their life right now.

Chelle: Literally something that they're continuing working on from a past life and they still are working on in this life.

Laylla: Yeah, so sometimes lessons and working on lessons, you know, can be part of that working with air energy. And finding things about yourself from a past life can often help someone work through blockages or issues that they're having in this life. That's one of the things that just fascinates me is how often, maybe the way that they died in their past life, or maybe their occupation, or something that happened to them in their past life relates to things that are relevant in this life. Now, I'm not saying that everything is related to your past lives because most things are not.

Chelle: But it's known to have happened on occasion.

Laylla: It's surprising how often these correlations will happen and how talking about it can really help people in this lifetime work through it. And again, that communication thing, you know, that's very air-like.

Chelle: We as humans are kind of like onions, and I look at past life regression as digging down to the next layer and then to the next layer because all of the people that you have been in the past really do create and make up who you are now. And I want to know, you know, where have I been and what have I done that has created this hot mess?

Laylla: Another interesting way to do ancestor work is to also do deep meditation or hypnotherapy work with past life regression where you can talk to your ancestors, where, you know, maybe it's not you in a past life, but maybe you do some hypnotherapy work where you go back and you call your ancestors and you have a conversation with them.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: You know, that can be very helpful sometimes for people who have difficult ancestors. Um, I'm a firm believer that once people pass, they become connected with more of their oversoul, that they become connected with more of who they have been through many lifetimes and all of the lessons that they have learned. So very rarely have I encountered someone, unless they've just recently passed, who is still a dick once they've been dead for a little while. Even if you have problematic ancestors, you are more than likely going to be able to connect to them on some level.

Chelle: They're less dicks now.

Laylla: They're less dicks now after they've been dead for a minute. Because they've incorporated all those lessons together, and so.

Chelle: They got grounded in all that other energy.

Laylla: We're horrible.

Chelle: We're terrible.

Laylla: But communicate with your ancestors, communicate with the spirits, and by doing meditation and hypnotherapy, a lot of times that can facilitate that communication, that can help you in this lifetime.

Chelle: Can I just give a left-turn side note here? Our sick sense of humor is why we are the bestest of friends.

Laylla: Yes, that among many other things, I absolutely agree. Yes.

Chelle: Our sick, our sick, twisted sense of humor definitely is a contributor.

Laylla: Doesn't hurt. Does not hurt at all.

Chelle: I think maybe probably the best way for folks to just take a step back and honor air and do some workings with air would be to just maybe be cognizant of your, of your breath. That's probably the best first step I could say is be cognizant of your breath. Breathing is everything.

Laylla: How often have you been in a bad mood or been all scattered and someone says, take a breath.

Chelle: How many times have you told me that?

Laylla: Yeah, right. And you take that deep breath, in through your nose, out through your mouth, and you immediately, that calm, that relaxation, you start to feel a little bit better.

Chelle: Your shoulders release.

Laylla: Yeah. Taking that breath and just being right there, that can help center you and help bring you right back to this moment. So breath is so important.

Chelle: So next, what are we going to talk about next, Laylla?

Laylla: Next week, I believe we will be talking about fire. Fire, fire, fire, fire, fire. Fuego. Everyone's favorite element. I think every other person at Brushwood, now I'm not complaining, I think it's awesome, but I think like every third person at Brushwood had some version of fire as a name. It's a very popular pagan name.

Chelle: Shellfire sounds way too close to hellfire, so.

Laylla: But yeah, a lot of fire names.

Chelle: Well, I guess we're going to dive into fire next time, and we're going to see if we get burned. Thank you all so much for listening to this episode of Back on the Broomstick. Please like, subscribe, leave us some reviews. It really helps the show out, helps people find us, and it makes Shell and I super happy.

Laylla: And for the love of the lady, send us mail, people. Again, you will be entered into the Season of the Witch Samhain Oracle Deck drawing if you send us something in the mail postmarked between August 8th and October 1st. And again, you can find us at Back on the Broomstick, PO Box 106, Salem, Mass, 01970. And boy, I love going to that PO box and finding stuff. I love it so much.

Chelle: I love when you do too, because then you send me pictures, and I do.

Laylla: And also a big, huge thank you to our benefactors. All of you wonderful people who keep this show running are automatically entered in the Season of the Witch Samhain Oracle giveaway.

Chelle: Send us some mail and you'll get a dual entry, folks.

Laylla: Thank you all again for listening to this air episode on our elemental series. We will see you next week for fire.

Chelle: Be wise, be wicked.

Laylla: And keep it witchy, folks.
