Laylla: Welcome to Back on the Broomstick, a modern witches' spoken word grimoire, where two witchy friends from way back are reconnecting to their pagan roots after a long period of mundanity. We're rewalking the path of the wise and trying out all the latest spells, rituals, and magical theory in today's witchcraft and pagan practices. So grab your wand and your incense, your cauldron and your crystals, and join us as we get back on the broomstick.

Laylla: Hi, and welcome to Back on the Broomstick. I'm Laylla, and this is the fourth episode of the elemental magic series. And for this episode, we'll be wading into the magic of water. Water is the element of intuition, healing, and emotion. From the holy wells of the Celts to the dark banks of the River Styx, water has long been part of our collective subconscious. We'll explore the wisdom of water through its magical correspondences, its liminal symbolism, and its deeply personal connection to our bodies and minds. But wait, I'm Chelle, and before we dive into the water, like what I did there? Before we dive into the water, we want to talk a little bit about a wonderful, fabulous, upcoming event, Pagan Pride Day. It is going to be Pagan Pride Day all across the world throughout the month of September. So we want to take a moment and talk about what is Pagan Pride Day, where did it come from, where is it headed, and what are we doing for Pagan Pride Day? Laylla?

Laylla: You and I have celebrated this for a very long time, going back to the first Pagan Pride we ever attended was in 2001.

Chelle: Almost to the beginnings of Pagan Pride Days, honestly.

Laylla: That's right. Almost. From what we we looked it up not too long ago and found out that Pagan Pride, there's rumors that it started in the early '90s, like right around 1992. But there's really no documented evidence of that. The first time there's really any documentation of a Pagan Pride Day was in the late '90s, like right around 1998.

Chelle: And that was what, three, four years before we went to our first Pagan Pride Day, which happened to be the very first New York City Pagan Pride Day, circa 2001.

Laylla: And sadly, it was shortly after the September 11th attacks in New York City.

Chelle: Yeah, so there was really a sense of wanting to come together, that solidarity, that connection amongst witches. Like, it was a deep, deep experience, I think, both emotionally, magically, mentally, the whole thing.

Laylla: Yeah, there was a lot to it. And I'm going to post pictures of baby witch Chelle and Laylla at our Pagan Pride Day in New York City back in 2001. There are also going to be some 9/11 memorial pictures in that as well, because the two are intrinsically tied together in our memories.

Chelle: Wow, you have pictures of me from then?

Laylla: I do, yeah.

Chelle: I didn't know they existed. I can't wait for these social media posts.

Laylla: You had bright red hair.

Chelle: Oh, I remember that hair, and I loved it. I can't wait.

Laylla: This year, Pagan Pride, we are going back to Central New York Pagan Pride. This group has been running a Pagan Pride Day for quite a few years now, and they do a phenomenal job. Like a lot of groups, you know, they have their glitches and their issues, mostly due to the fact that there's just a couple of them.

Chelle: Who doesn't, to be honest? Like, if you are expecting some glitch-free, issue-free thing, I don't know where you're going, because it's nowhere I've been. Right?

Laylla: But there won't be any glitches as far as workshops go. They do rituals and workshops. There's drum circles. There's vendors. Pretty much any Pagan Pride that you go to, you're going to find a lot of interesting things going on. You're going to be able to meet people, learn new things, and buy pretty shiny things.

Chelle: But also, one common theme among Pagan Pride Days that I think is awesome is there's generally a food drive, a non-perishable canned food drive, where they ask you to donate goods to folks in need. So if you are heading out to your local Pagan Pride Days sometime in the month of September, you know, take a take a few extra things with you and donate that to those who don't necessarily have as much as we all do.

Laylla: And take some time and and check out the local booths. A lot of times, these Pagan Prides will have not only vendors, but they'll have groups from your local area that provide services. Maybe they provide local rituals or local study groups. You might be able to find covens or different events in your area.

Chelle: Different pagan meetups, yeah.

Laylla: Yep. So check that out. It's definitely a great way to find like-minded people in your area.

Chelle: But also, I would be remiss if I didn't say this. Another fun reason to go to these is the shopping, okay? These vendors are phenomenal. And let me tell you, I know that the man in the blue truck can get it to you in two days, but you are not supporting your community and your local pagans that way. Go to these things. Look at these people's wares. And if you're going to spend the dollars anyway, spend them local with some of your local community.

Laylla: There's just so much going on at these places. So make sure you check it out, because you will find one-of-a-kind items, handmade items, very witchy-witchy things.

Chelle: But you will also find altar tools and some ritual supplies that you may need to snag up while you're there.

Laylla: Not everybody's lucky enough to have a pagan shop in their area, so this might be a good way to supply up, Chelle, who goes to 15 on your lunch break.

Chelle: Don't be hating on me, man.

Laylla: I'm not. I'm just super jealous.

Chelle: 'Tis the season, folks. I know you're all coming to Salem, because that's what everybody does this time of year. If you need any shopping tips, let me know.

Laylla: Fall is the time for all of these pagan events. You know, everybody not only loves to go to Salem, but there's Pagan Pride events. It just seems to be that kind of year.

Chelle: And if you are looking for connection, these are great ways to connect with folks, whether it's trying to find a a working coven or just a community or just people to make you not feel alone in this crazy world.

Laylla: And to bring it back around to our episode topic, fall is also considered to be the season of water. So, ah, see what I did there? Bring it all the way back. Uh-huh. Uh-huh.

Chelle: Yeah, and you know, it's kind of funny, because you just mentioned that you all of a sudden have this storm in your area. It's funny be Well, it's not funny. It's ironic that this is kind of that that water time, but it's also the time when, you know, it's hurricane season, thunderstorms are kicking off, a lot of rain is is shifting in now. And so it's almost like the Earth feels like it's in its water phase right now. You know, and I had sent you videos of this. Um, we'll see if we can get some posted. But I went down the other night to the shore. We had a storm coming in here in the North Shore, Massachusetts, and those waves, like, there's an energy that comes in with that water. It's indescribable. It's It's this powerful It's almost like this loving, cleansing force that will snap your neck in a heartbeat.

Laylla: Water has moods. You know, you you look out at a beautiful lake and it's glassy and it's smooth and it's perfect and and you can see all the way down to the bottom and it looks so gentle and nice. But then you look at Niagara Falls and the water is pouring down the sides in a thunderous roar. It could pound you to a pulp in a second.

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: And so water has all of these different moods. It's not only a shape-shifter in that it can go from glassy and clear to waves crashing in a heartbeat, but water takes the shape of whatever you put it into. And water is the only element that has all the different forms of matter. Just normally, you can normally on the planet Earth find water in a liquid, a gas, or a solid form. And that's pretty magical.

Chelle: I keep going back to that sight I saw the other day at the beach. Water can be this loving, comforting, cleansing thing that can engulf you in love and care. But in the next breath, that same water can be what takes you out. You know, you don't pay attention to those emotions, those feelings, and the elemental pieces of water, that can really destroy you from the inside out. They say that we're made up mostly of water here as humans.

Laylla: About 60%.

Chelle: Yeah, I mean, this is the element that we should be the most attuned to. It is is tied to our emotional self. And I think that sometimes not enough care is taken towards that, and I think people shy away from the water element because I feel like it's a reflection of ourselves.

Laylla: Yeah, water is the element of our emotions, of our deep subconscious, and of our mind. Your brain itself is surrounded by water. And when we talk about water taking on intention or taking on the shape of things that you put it into, you know, that goes back to the doctrine of signatures. Water is very malleable. Water is something that you can mold if you choose to do it.

Chelle: So is your emotional state.

Laylla: And like you said, a lot of times we don't choose to control that. We don't choose to work with the water. You know, we try to ignore it or just glance along the surface because it's easier, like a skipping rock.

Chelle: Look at that pretty glass surface and not look at what's underneath.

Laylla: Yeah, and underneath water is teeming with so much. There's so much life and so many things there. I mean, the metaphors just kind of write themselves here. But because our bodies are made up of water and because they can be influenced by things like like say the moon. The moon pulls on the tides, right? And influences that water and turns it into those crashing waves. Well, we're 60% water. If we don't think the moon tugs on us, I mean, I think that would be silly to think that it doesn't.

Chelle: I think most emergency room and police departments would agree with you on that theory.

Laylla: Right, right. So if we kind of work with water intentionally instead of ignoring it, if we if we go into the depths of that water, if we delve the depths of our emotions, you know, we can really channel that into a good direction and get a lot of magic and energy out of it. But I think like you said, it's it's easy to stay on the surface.

Chelle: And you know, when I'm thinking of working with water, I mean, water, that's the obvious tool. But as far as tools that kind of lead you down that water mindset without having access to actual water, I think of mirror magic when I think of water. I think maybe because that that surface of the mirror looks like that glass surface of a lake or or of a river or on occasion that glass surface of the ocean. So this is a time where I find mirror magic to be very prevalent is when I'm working with water energies.

Laylla: Yeah, water itself as a mirror for scrying or meditation works beautifully. Water wants to reflect what it's shown, much like a mirror does, and it will happily take the shape of whatever you direct it into. So if you work with those qualities of divination purposely, like for example scrying or working with water for mirror spells, you can shape the energy of that water into whatever magical tool you need. Are there any other tools that represent water that you like to use, Chelle?

Chelle: Vessels. When I think of West altar tools, I'm thinking of vessels, whether it's a cauldron or a bowl, a dish, a seashell dish. Obviously, things associated with the ocean and with with rivers and lakes and streams would be things I would potentially use on on my altar. I know generally we say rocks is kind of an earth thing, but if I pulled something out of a river or the ocean, that may tend to be in my West quadrant of my altar.

Laylla: Yeah, I like to use beach glass as water as well. Glass is created by fire. It's earth and fire. But because it has been shaped and molded by that water, it carries the energy of water with it. So stones that have been shaped by water, glass that has been shaped I even have bits of pottery that have been shaped by water. Because water in time is extremely powerful. You don't notice the changes that water is making as it relentlessly carves through a river, right? But over years, you'll see that it has changed the course of that river because it just keeps coming. It just keeps going. And if you don't watch it, it will change the course of things. It will change the shape of things because it is powerful, even if it is kind of slow-moving. But things that I like to work with with water, you mentioned earlier mirrors, and because that clear surface You know I take everything to divination. Yeah, that reflective surface with water is really great to use as a as a scrying mirror, because you have that connection with the subconscious, with the deep brain. And so by scrying into that, same as you would with fire gazing or any other type of scrying divination, just soften your gaze, you know, relax your mind, and and just let those images come.

Chelle: Yep.

Laylla: And it works very well because of water's strong connection to your subconscious mind.

Chelle: It is also number 842 on what you can do with all that stocked-up, saved moon water that is on your shelf or under your dresser that you're like, "What do I do with this now?" Water scrying. Absolutely.

Laylla: Yeah.

Chelle: You know, I I joke that I take everything back to divination, but I truly do. And I think that for a lot of newer folks that haven't tried a lot of different methods of divination, the best way to know what you're good at and what you like the most is try them all. So this might be a good push to try water divination or or mirror divination.

Laylla: Water's good for that divination, again, because of the connection with the subconscious. I mean, that's where our intuition and our divination lives. And also because water is very much a liminal space. When you go through that surface, you're in a whole 'nother world, basically, inside water. The Celts very much feel that holy wells can be liminal spaces between here and another world. They had a lot of association with holy rivers and holy lakes, deeply associated with land spirits. But the Celts weren't the only people to think that water was a liminal space. The Greeks did as well, the Greeks and the Romans, with the River Styx. They had the whole idea that in order to get from this world into the afterworld, you had to cross a river. I believe she was a goddess at one point. I mean, when we're born, there's the whole birth waters, right? You're born in a rush of water. And so they felt that when you died, you also had to cross water. So water itself is that liminal between life and death kind of space. So it makes divination or scrying or any type of intuitive work very easy. It can be a portal into that other side.

Chelle: And you know, the obvious one that that I've been thinking of that you didn't mention was Avalon. You know, you have to get in the boat and go through the mists.

Laylla: The barge, right? You have to get in the barge, and the priestess parts the mists, and then you go, instead of Glastonbury Tor across the water, you go to Avalon. Yeah, water is very much associated, especially with women, with femininity, with the goddess, with these spirits. And and I think a lot of that has to do with, you know, from the womb, you are in the waters of the womb. A lot of associations there. And again, the waters around the brain. So intelligence, the brain, life and death, water is associated with all of these things.

Chelle: Now, let's say one wants to get a better connection with water. What would be one suggestion you would give to folks on a way they can work with the water, the element of water?

Laylla: The easiest one, you like to talk about it all the time, is take a bath. Take a ritual bath. Get yourself into the water. Get your body in the water. Get wet.

Chelle: You know, actually, ritual bath was going to be in my top, too. And with that, what I think is most effective for me, take some flower petals. Sometimes it can't all be rose petals, folks. Sometimes it can be, but not always. Flower petals, some ritual oil. Obviously, you're going to want to cleanse your bath prior to getting in, and just get in and just kind of soak it all in. And maybe whatever herbs or oils you put in your ritual bath, or even flower petals for that matter, may be to a means to whatever end you're looking at. You know, are you looking for clarity, or are you looking for a vision of of the next steps you should take? You know, what is the purpose of that bath, which may dictate what you put into that bath. But get into the bath. Even if you just need a good cleansing, if you just need a good cleansing, showers. And I do not mean that in in the "take a shower, you know, you'll get cleansed."

Laylla: You're a dirty witch, take a shower.

Chelle: You're a dirty witch. But like, there's something to be said for like when that water is just flowing at you from the head down, it's just Yes, you're kind of washing away all the literal dirt and grime, but you're getting all that figurative dirt and grime. It's almost I look at it almost sometimes as like an aura cleanse. You know, it's like showering your aura, showering your space, you know. A good time to be able to to cut all the ties off of you, you know. As you're washing yourself, you're washing yourself of those ties from that day or or what have you. I always like to take a shower after I've been out in a big old crowd of people. It's like I'm I'm washing all the residual spiritual ick off me, you know, aside from the dirt and grime. I I think showers just in and of themselves are a spiritual cleansing method aside from a physical cleansing method.

Laylla: Showers are one of those amazing like-for-like magic spells that are perfect, because it's so easy to visualize. Step in the shower, the water's coming down from your crown, and it's flowing down your body. And as it flows down your body, it carries with it all the negativity, all the grime, all the dirt, all the bullshit. It is so easy to visualize. It's actually happening with the soap and the dirt. Yeah. So making that visual connection is super, super easy with a shower. So I love showers and baths for cleansing purposes, spiritual cleansing purposes, for that reason. And also because it's so easy to feel that water. When you're feeling the physical aspect of water, you're feeling the spiritual and magical aspects of it as well. It can heat you up. It can cool you down. It can make you hydrated. It can drown you. It can cleanse you. It can make you feel purified and uplifted. It can pull you down. So all these things that you feel when you're in water or with water are how you can work with it magically. And do you remember, Chelle, way back when we were little witchlings, when we first went to a festival, interestingly enough, at Brushwood Folklore Center?

Chelle: Love Brushwood.

Laylla: They used to have a group that went there, very large group, called the Church of All Worlds.

Chelle: I remember the Church of All Worlds. Yeah, great folks.

Laylla: Here's us, cute little 20-something witchlings sitting in a hot tub full of like all grizzled old dudes, and somebody cupped some water in their hands, turned to the person next to them, and poured it into their hands and said, "Water shared is life shared." And the person they gave the water to said, "May you never thirst."

Chelle: Exactly. And so that went around the hot tub. And so when it got to us, we had learned the call and response by that point, so we fit right in. But I had heard that originally in a book I read because I was a major nerd as a kid and I read Heinlein's Stranger in a Strange Land. And that's where that phrase came from. The Church of All Worlds was created from the book Stranger in a Strange Land by Oberon Zell and friends. And it became a major movement. It is still a movement.

Laylla: I just want to point out that we weren't drinking the hot tub water.

Chelle: No, no, no. It was poured from hand to hand in that particular picture.

Laylla: Yeah, there was no drinking involved in this water.

Chelle: It was pagan soup enough at that point. There is no way in all the freaking levels of hell you would have gotten me to drink any of that water or even put my face in it.

Laylla: I would have literally licked dew off of grass before drinking hot tub water at a festival.

Chelle: You can barely get me in a hot tub at a festival these days, so. Anyway, that was the first place I remember seeing water very prominently displayed in a pagan ritual, and it was very, very important to them. But water shared is life shared. We're water. You know, we need water to survive. When we're sharing water, we're sharing a little bit of ourselves. And this is water that has been drank and evaporated, rained down upon the earth, grown into something else, and through this cycle for millennia. You're drinking water that dinosaurs drank. This water's been around for a while. And so, it's that deep history, it's that subconscious, it's the past, it's that slow-moving knowledge. You know, all of this is there. So when you're drinking this water, you're literally drinking history. You're sharing life with everyone that has ever been on this planet and everyone that ever will be on this planet.

Laylla: I think you're starting to shed some light into the some of the reasons why I've never really been a water drinker.

Chelle: Yeah, starting to sound a little gross, right?

Laylla: It is. You're you're you're kind of making it less appealing as as time goes on.

Chelle: Think of it less as swapping spit with Hitler and more like.

Laylla: Swapping spit with.

Chelle: A mountain?

Laylla: A mountain.

Chelle: I guess, yeah. A god, I don't know. The earth itself, something cooler, I don't know.

Laylla: Well, I think that water is definitely an element that people shy away from that really should be, I think, delved into more. You know, you got that that mental part of air, you've got that solid grounded part of earth, you've got that passionate drive of fire. You need to bring that emotional sense of water into things. There's four elements for a reason because we require that balance. And I and I think that water is always the one that kind of gets shunned a little bit because there is an air of mystery that can be scary. But I think it should be equally delved into as as the other elements.

Chelle: I think some of it may come from a fear of self-reflection. People tend to get nervous when things get too deep. Definitely a lot going on underneath the surface most of the time.

Laylla: Like with fire, it's pretty cut and dry, like we spoke about before. You know, fire, it's there, it's in your face, it's can't be missed, whereas water, there's just so much unknown and mystery.

Chelle: You know, I think a lot of people are afraid of their subconscious. We're afraid of our memories and our deep emotions. You know, it's scary in there. Go dining around in your brain and your emotions, and it can be painful and it can be scary.

Laylla: I don't need to confront my own crazy. I already know I'm there.

Chelle: Yeah, so I think that's why sometimes we kind of shy away from it a little bit. But one of the ways that I found that made working with water easier for me was witches like moon water, right?

Laylla: Absolutely. Everybody's got that shit out on their porches, on their windowsills, and then not a damn one knows what to do with it afterwards.

Chelle: That's right. We get our jars because witches love jars.

Laylla: We love things we can put things in.

Chelle: Yeah, we do. So we get our cute little jar, we put some water in it, and we set our intention over the water, right? We're like, for this full moon, I want to charge this water with the power of the moon. And we put it out under the full moon, and it gets charged. And we say, this full moon is the energized moon, and so I have this energized full moon water. Why don't we do that with ourselves? If I'm 60% water, why can't I put myself out under the full moon and charge myself with the power of that full moon energy and self-love or motivation or charge myself with whatever energy intention I want and charge the water in this cute little jar that's me?

Laylla: You should be, absolutely. That is a good idea.

Chelle: But I think we tend to ignore our inner selves. The outward things are easier. You know, the fire of action and outward emotion, the earth that's your body, the air that's your breath. These things, like you said, are easy to see. They're out there. They're right there. And our subconscious and our emotions are so much harder to work with. And and I think we tend to skip over that. So on the next full moon, set the intention that we want to be more comfortable with the deeper parts of our magical brain and our subconscious and treat ourselves as the really cool jar holding the water and put ourselves out under the full moon to absorb all of that beautiful energy.

Laylla: So working with water, there is an element of self-care in that, is that what you're saying?

Chelle: Yeah, that's exactly what I'm saying. Bubble bath with candles and herbs, adorn myself with crystals and herbs and oils, and go stand under the full moon and declare that all the water in my body is sacred, holy, and badass. Uh, yeah. If you call that self-care, that's exactly what I'm doing.

Laylla: Take a shower and put yourself in front of the moon, people. That's what we're saying.

Chelle: That's what we're saying. Set your intentions for you, you know, instead of setting out that moon water that you're not going to label and you're going to forget what it was for, put yourself out under the full moon for a few minutes and absorb those energies into the water that's part of you.

Laylla: I love that. That's such a great idea because I think that people sometimes tend to forget themselves in this whole mix of magic.

Chelle: Absolutely. Okay, so I brought up moon water. Have you ever made any other kinds of water?

Laylla: I've made super moon water. There's been times where we have had outrageous thunder and lightning storms, uh, where I've I've done water for storm water.

Chelle: Storm water, yeah.

Laylla: And I have a couple shelves full of water that I need to do something with, so I am just as guilty as every other person.

Chelle: The uses for moon water usually depend on the energy of the moon, but in general, it's for purification, general spell work, and for offerings. And you also mentioned storm water, and that's collected the same way that you would collect moon water by putting water out to absorb the energy of that storm, or better yet, by putting out a container to let the storm itself fill that container with water from the storm. Storm water is full of the raw energy of that weather event. It carries the same amount of power that that tempest did. And in my opinion, the more powerful the storm, the more powerful the water. And it's great when you need that wild, untamed energy of a storm for protection or big motivation to power through something, whenever you need that big, powerful thunder and lightning kind of energy. And there's also sun water, and that's usually used for anything that you would want sun-type energy for: growth, vitality, success, motivation, power, clarity, all these things. There's a lot of different types of water. Water is great for holding on to energy and taking the shape of what your intention is. So there are a ton of different kinds of water.

Laylla: You said sun water, but generally, I don't make sun water per se, but I do like to make sun tea during the summer where you put the water out on the, you know, put it out on the deck and let it sit with the tea bags under the sun. I love that. I love that so much. We used to do that when I was a kid, and I just I just love that. But I don't necessarily think of that as sun water because it's tea that I'm drinking, but you're absolutely right, same thing.

Chelle: And I think it's better as tea that you're drinking. Put the herbs in there, put the tea in there that corresponds to what you want in your life.

Laylla: And consume that.

Chelle: Yeah, you know, you want some energized peace in your life, do some chamomile and mint to have a calm day where you get shit done. But put that in the sun and add that energized energy to the sun. So when you make your tea, put it out in the sun with the intention of gathering that energy because water easily pulls in things like that. It very easily pulls in those energies and those intentions. And it also has a lot of properties by itself. You know, we talked about taking showers to cleanse ourselves. If you're cleansing a tool or if you want to get something away from you, running water, whether real running water of a river or your faucet or your toilet, is a great way to pull energies away from you. The magical properties of running water are change and are pulling things away. It's cleansing.

Laylla: You have no idea how many bay leaves have gone down my toilet.

Chelle: Write somebody's name on a piece of toilet paper and flush it is a very simple way to get them out of your life. Not just the symbology of the toilet getting that piece of shit to go away, but also the symbology of the running water because running water is magical. Folk magic says that evil spirits can't cross running water. So by using that, you get that negativity away from you.

Laylla: You know, so funny. I have a funny quick funny story. So at my awesome, awesome part-time job at one of the witchy stores downtown, the big boss has a rule, and he's going to laugh when he hears me say this. So his rule, and it involves water in the bathroom, toilet seat always has to be closed. Why would you ask? Why is it so imperative that he insists the toilet seat be closed? Cuz he doesn't want the demons coming up, man. Keep them demons down. Whatever the demons are, that's up to you to imagine. But keep the demons down, keep the seat down because, you know, that's another thing. People always talk about how energies and and spirit energies can travel. Spirit energies can travel through water. You know, if you're looking to say you're doing house protections, looking after seal off of your space, you would be remiss if you forgot about water lines and water connections because just as much as electrical lines can be a conduit for spirits to move about, water can be a conduit for spirits to move about too. And my boss does not want no bullshit coming out of that toilet, spirit energy or otherwise, so the lid stays down.

Chelle: Water is definitely a conduit for spiritual energy, for spirits. In our previous podcast, The Stoned Witches Hour, we looked into supernatural events and hauntings around the country. I was very, very surprised at how often a lot of these haunted places were on top of or very close to running water.

Laylla: They had some sort of correlation to running water, yeah. I mean, it's it's definitely a conduit for spirit movement, so keep the toilet lid down, my friends. But, you know, also same thing when you're cleansing, you know, if you're cleansing your space, warding off space, just as much as you would cleanse and seal mirrors and window ways, you would do the same with faucets, your toilet, etc.

Chelle: Yeah, side note, a lot of people understand that a window or a doorway is is an opening into your house. They don't realize that a heat vent or a water pipe or an electrical outlet is an opening into your house. And so if you are being very serious about warding your house, people will cleanse and seal all openings of their home. So, yeah, we don't always think about those.

Laylla: Those are just some of the things about water that sometimes people forget about because water is the one we kind of try to rush through because no one wants to, you know, deal with that emotional.

Chelle: Nobody wants to deal with that emotional shit. We all want to quick get around that. But that's the one that we really need to work with. Our bodies are so much water. Our brains are so much water. And by connecting with that, by controlling that and harnessing that, we can start to make it work for us and help us achieve our goals. Water's powerful. Water wheels are one of the first ways that people made energy. So, you know, if you can harness that power, it might feel slow at first, but you get that rushing water going and there's not a lot that can stop a whole wall of water. That's one way to raise a lot of energy for a spell working.

Laylla: I love water. I actually love water. I absolutely love water, you know. Like I was saying before, that energy that you get at the ocean, you know, it's so loving and caring, but yet like kind of a Jekyll and Hyde, it can be so destructive and horrible. And, you know, when you look at the earth, the earth is covered mostly in water. We don't know what the hell is under there. So it's also water is the ocean is kind of that that last mysterious all the mysteries that are left, it seems, in this world are in the water right now.

Chelle: Yeah, it's the deep. It's those deep dark depths that we're very scared of, the ones in our brain and the ones on the planet.

Laylla: But they're also those ones that have those hidden secret jewels and gems and nuggets of wisdom and wonder and amazement.

Chelle: Because of its connections to deep wisdom and amazement and to the spirit world, water is probably my favorite offering to make to any deity, to any land spirit. Pretty much anybody that you offer water to, except for maybe a pure fire spirit, is going to be appreciative of that water because water shared is life shared. It's it makes up so much of what's on this planet. It makes up pretty much everything, and we all need it in some way to survive. So by sharing water, you're basically saying, I respect you. I respect your life. And that's that's a beautiful thing. And so it makes a very easy, simple offering to your ancestors or to your deities or or to your spirit guides. I see people all the time that are like, I made this offering of food. What do I do with it now? Or, I made this offering, how do I dispose of it? With water, you don't ever have to worry about that. You can just let it evaporate. You can put it out on the earth. That is something that's always accepted.

Laylla: I like that water is probably the easiest offering. It is probably my second go-to for offerings. Usually I offer weed, I'm not going to lie.

Chelle: Yeah, I usually roll that in a joint with other herbs with the intention of making the smoke my offering, not the nugget itself.

Laylla: Well, I always offer a pinch because it's value, you know, I look at it as something that means something to me, so I'm offering. Um, but water is is definitely my second go-to because like you said, it's something that it's almost a representation of giving a part of myself as that offering. You know, going back to the we are made up 60% of water, it's the thought of giving an offering of a piece of yourself.

Chelle: Yeah, very much so. Piece of life.

Laylla: This makes me want to go get a drink.

Chelle: Yeah, I'm kind of thirsty too. All right, well, on that note, I think Chelle's going to go to the ocean. I'm going to close all my windows against this major storm that's moving in. And, uh, we will see you soon for the water meditation. But I do want to give a quick shout-out to everyone who has already sent in an entry to our giveaway. Thank you so much for sending us mail. We really appreciate it. Please check out our official rules for the Seasons of the Witch giveaway on our Facebook page, on any of our social media, or on our website.

Laylla: And if you have forgotten, it is Back on the Broomstick, PO Box 106, Salem, Massachusetts, 01970. We can take entries from all over the world. Send us your entries, send us a line, a little card, a little hi, how you doing, because, well, we like mail. I love being able to go to the mailbox during the day, get mail, and just rip it open and send picture texts to Laylla and be like, ha ha, look what I got today.

Chelle: So if you want to make Chelle's day and mine too, send us mail. But we do want to just say check out the official rules. We did have a a very kind listener point out that there are, weirdly, rules when it comes to giving things away. You have to be very cautious about how you do it and very careful. So we carefully looked up all the rules for a whole bunch of different countries, and we made this legal for as many countries as we possibly could. So, yeah, check out the rules and enter.

Laylla: And just as a quick little note, you know, we're not going to go over the rules, but entries must be postmarked August 8th through October 1st to be entered. Check out the rules for more details.

Chelle: Yeah, and check us out online on our socials or next Friday for the next.

Laylla: Segment in our.

Chelle: Installment for the next installment in our elemental series, which is.

Laylla: Spirit!

Chelle: We're going to go through the ether, the life force itself, deity, spirit, the big one.

Laylla: This is like the one where people are like, wait, I thought there was only four elements. Wait for it. We've got another.

Chelle: There's more.

Laylla: There's more.

Chelle: And we'll be going over it next week. So in a couple days, we will come out with the water meditation, so keep a listen out for that one. In the meantime, check out our socials, give us some stars, some likes, reviews. It really helps the show out, helps other people to find it, and it makes Chelle and I cackle like little witches.

Laylla: Exactly. We're heading fast to the season of the witch here, so for this last bit of summer, stay wise, stay wicked.

Chelle: But above all else, keep it witchy.
