Laylla: Welcome to Back on the Broomstick, a modern witch's spoken word grimoire, where two witchy friends from way back are reconnecting to their pagan roots after a long period of mundanity. We're rewalking the path of the wise and trying out all the latest spells, rituals, and magical theory in today's witchcraft and pagan practices. So grab your wand and your incense, your cauldron and your crystals, and join us as we get back on the broomstick.

Laylla: Hi, and welcome to Back on the Broomstick. I'm Laylla, and this is the fifth of our five-part elemental series. In this episode, we'll be talking about spirit, akasha, ether, the element that connects all the other elements.

Chelle: I'm Chelle, and you know, I'm almost sad that this this little mini series is coming to an end. But ending with spirit, ending with that that akasha energy, it's exciting, but I'm sad to wrap up the series.

Laylla: You know, I've been having a lot of fun deep diving into each of the elements too.

Chelle: Another good point. It is it is wonderful to reminisce about, you know, old thoughts, old deeds, how we viewed things, how maybe those views have changed. Aris to ones in my opinion, but anyway. But I it also gave me the opportunity to seek out some new content and material in the form of books and in information and kind of get different thoughts and perspectives about elements that I might not have thought of in the past. And I do really just want to quick mention this book because it was really kick ass. Obviously, going back through, I don't know what I have, five, six old books of shadows, you know, reminiscing on that. But I got a hand on Heron Michelle's, love the name, by the way. Heron Michelle's Elemental Witchcraft: A Guide to Living a Magical Life Through the Elements. Fabulous book. This is not a sponsored book. I actually paid for this, and it was kick ass and helped me with this deep dive into the elements.

Laylla: I see all the notes in that book. You made me actually want to go get it. So, I am also getting a copy of that book to check out. Again, not a sponsor. But, I'm so glad that you mentioned books and going down memory lane because I actually have a listener question that I'd like to bring up before we go any further with this episode. Now, this is a question that I get a lot.

Chelle: Oh, love listener questions. Ask away, people. Ask away.

Laylla: Now, we have answered this one before, but again, we get asked it a lot, so I'm going to answer it yet again. Back in some of our earlier episodes, we mentioned one book repeatedly, and we said this book was called 10,000 Goddesses, and we talked about it quite often, that we always would refer to this book when looking up goddesses around the world.

Chelle: This is a perfect example of a Mandela effect, apparently.

Laylla: Yes, it is, because you and I are both absolutely 100% sure.

Chelle: Damn it, it was called 10,000 Goddesses. I know this. In my head, I know this.

Laylla: I can see the cover of it in my head, and very clearly it said 10,000 Goddesses. That book does not exist.

Chelle: Damn it, Mandela effect and all. But it does.

Laylla: In the alternate universe where Chelle and I both had this book, that's where it exists. But it's an amalgamation of two books that we both had at that time. The Witch's Goddess by Janet and Stewart Farrar.

Chelle: Love them.

Laylla: And also, The Book of Goddesses and Heroines by Patricia Monaghan. So, those two books, which neither one of them has 10,000 Goddesses in it, but those two books are the ones that we kind of somehow put together in our heads to create 10,000 Goddesses.

Chelle: No, you're wrong. There was a book called that. I just It's been wiped from like the internet and like It's just been wiped. I don't know why.

Laylla: You know, my logical brain knows that that book does not exist. I I know this. However, my memory and my subconscious beg to differ. They are insistent that that book is real, and I just haven't found it yet, and somehow you and I have both lost our copies of it. Mine must have been lost in the flood. You must have lost yours in a move. I I don't know.

Chelle: But in my mind, when I think of the two books, 10,000 Goddesses and 10,000 Gods, I am thinking of the covers of The Witch's God and The Witch's Goddess by Janet and Stewart Farrar.

Laylla: Okay. It's interesting because 10,000 Goddesses to me has the cover of Goddesses and Heroines.

Chelle: Really? Yeah. So, we have a different memory of the same I guess we do. Same title, different cover. So, I guess it really is just an amalgamation of these two books.

Chelle: All that matters is that both books are chock full of thousands and thousands of goddesses and gods and information on them.

Laylla: That's right. Lots of good information in those books. But, yeah, sadly, there is no book called 10,000 Goddesses. It's just us and our terrible memories. Now, speaking of books that are fabulous and fabulous witchy bookstores that you can get them at.

Laylla: I'm probably going to get that elemental book when I come visit you in Salem at the shop where you got it.

Chelle: No. Speaking of visiting me in Salem and coming in contact with me at the shop I work at, I saw a listener in the wild.

Laylla: How very cool. I was so excited when you mentioned it. You were just so thrilled that a listener had found you.

Chelle: I literally texted you while I was still there and was like, oh my god, guess what?

Laylla: I don't know who was more excited, you or them.

Chelle: Probably both of us. But, we do have a public service announcement.

Laylla: We do. I want to thank everybody who does go to Salem and have a good time. There is so much to see and do there. Chelle and I will definitely help you with our favorites with what we like. Chelle's a local, so she's certainly has the inside track.

Chelle: I know things. I know things.

Laylla: She does. As her bestie, I do want to put out there a best witchy friend PSA. When you go to Salem, Massachusetts, and you happen to find our favorite podcasting goddess, the queen of the witchy airwaves, Chelle, working her fun part-time job, hugs are wonderful. She will happily take a selfie with you. But, remember, she is working. And although her boss adores her and is also a fan of the show, hey, please don't fire Chelle when she gets rushed by listeners. Um, but, yeah, she is working.

Chelle: I'm on the clock, people.

Laylla: You had a lovely customer come in.

Chelle: I did, and this was a listener. And this was so funny because, you know, I'm walking around the store, you know, you greet people, hi, how you doing, what can I help you with. So, I kind of look at this guy. I don't know why. You know, sometimes you're just drawn to people. And he's looking at me. And he's looking at me, and, you know, we I keep walking. Well, I started talking to one of my coworkers. I don't even know what I was saying, blah blah blah blah blah. And then he comes up to me and he goes, I do have a question. Do you do a podcast? Because I recognize your voice.

Laylla: You do have a distinctive voice, Chelle.

Chelle: I do. And, you know, I have allergies, so that doesn't help either. So, I'm like, yeah. And come to find out, he's a big fan. He was visiting from New Orleans. We did hugs, we did a selfie. It was fabulous. Actually, he tagged us in the selfie. Check it out online. And it was such a wonderful interaction, and I'm so glad he stopped in and said something.

Laylla: You commented to me like immediately about how excited.

Chelle: I literally texted you like, oh my god, guess what, guess what, guess what. I don't know who was more excited, him or I.

Laylla: See, now, that's lovely. And pretty sure you're going to get more and more of those. And and when it's quiet, that's not a problem at all. How fun is that?

Chelle: Oh, we had a lovely interaction, and it was at the perfect time. The store wasn't busy. Oh, it was just so it was so nice to see a fan in the wild. We love fans in the wild. But, I do want to say, you know, here we are, uh, end of August, beginning of September, it was quiet, and that was such a great interaction. But as the season goes on, it is going to be crazy town here in Salem. And when I am working, I will do the best I can to say hi, give hugs, might be able to even throw a selfie with you. But, just please be cognizant that I am punched in on the clock and I am there to do a job.

Laylla: Yep, exactly. As happy as Chelle will be to see more fans in the wild, this is a job. We all have to have work, unfortunately.

Chelle: But definitely say something. Definitely say hi. I am all for hugs. I would love to meet you and have a really brief conversation. But, like I said, if it's super busy, I don't want you to be upset if I have to continue working.

Laylla: Is this a where's Chelle? Like find Chelle in the wild in Salem. If you find Chelle in in the wild in Salem, tag her on our Facebook group.

Chelle: Or Instagram.

Laylla: Or Instagram, and tell us where you're from and what day you found her, but don't say where.

Chelle: We're we're trying to just keep where under wraps right now because I don't want to piss my boss off.

Laylla: Yeah, he's a good guy. We love him.

Chelle: He'll be like, you know, Chelle, you're here to do a job, not meet listeners. So, we're trying to keep under wraps where I am. But if you go to all of the best witchy shops in Salem, if I am working that day, you'll find me.

Laylla: So, yes, we're very glad that you have a nice fun outwardly facing job, and as long as you're able to keep it, things will be great.

Chelle: Help me keep my job.

Laylla: That's right. Until this podcast starts doing anything other than costing us money, we need to work.

Chelle: That's right. We need to have regular jobs, or two, in some cases.

Laylla: And please don't park downtown Salem.

Chelle: Oh lord. That's the end of the PSA.

Chelle: Let me just say, if you are coming to Salem and you are like, oh, I'm just going to park on the street. No. Go to the MBTA train station parking ramp. That's your best bet. That's all I got for you. Love you. See you soon.

Laylla: Yeah, so parking is going to be absolute hell. Take some public transportation into Salem. Save yourself and everyone else a headache.

Chelle: Nothing more fun than getting on the train. Come on.

Laylla: Yeah, seriously. Pretty cool times. All right. So, now that we've gotten all of that out of the way, let's get into this really interesting topic of spirit.

Chelle: Now, I had a thought, and I think that sometimes people might get a little bit confused with the element of spirit versus deity. You know what I'm saying?

Laylla: Yes. Oh, I'm so glad you brought that up so early. Okay. Yeah. You know, I had the same thought.

Chelle: Well, I figured I'd bring it up now because we'll spearhead off this the element of spirit making sure that we're we're making that clear line between spirit and deity. With deity, I look at it me personally, almost kind of like different different faces of the same entity. Spirit, I feel, is more encompassing of that and everything.

Laylla: Yeah, I agree. I think spirit is everything. Spirit is the element that weaves all the other elements together. It's the energy of life and magic itself. It's everything and everywhere, but it has no shape or name of its own. Deity, on the other hand, is different. Deity is much more personal. Gods and goddesses are divine forces with names and stories and will. They embody the big aspects of the world and life around us that we have trouble explaining any other way, like love, wisdom, the moon, war, fertility, but we give it an identity that you can call on, that you can worship and build a relationship with. So, it's more personal that way. So, in my opinion, you feel spirit in meditation and in magic, in the world and in powerful things and moments, and you talk to deity. Both are sacred. Spirit's the all, the everything, and deity is the face that we give to parts of spirit so that we can better understand it and so that we can better work with it. And a lot of times, people, particularly if you have a Wiccan background or if you get into that kind of elemental background, a lot of people will call deity in the spirit position.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: We talk about north being earth, people will say spirit, the center position, is deity. But, they're not the same thing.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: Spirit has different names in different cultures, but they all describe something that's extraordinary, something precious and sacred. The Greeks came up with ether because it's the air that's high enough and special enough for the gods to breathe. Or, sometimes people will call it quintessence, which literally means fifth element, or akasha, which is space, because it was it was special. It was this element that kind of wrapped around everything, that encompassed everything. So, it's it's more than just Oh, I hate to say just deity because I don't mean it like that. But, but it's everything.

Chelle: When I think of, you know how when you think in your mind, you know, we we've talked about visualizing each of these elements, and, you know, with air, you might visualize a cool breeze, or fire, a roaring fire, you know, water, a river, an ocean, a creek, a stream. With spirit, what I envision in my mind when I'm visualizing spirit is space. Like space. Like, I don't want to say just the Milky Way, but like not just the Milky Way, but like space, like outer space.

Laylla: The spiral nebulas and the, you know, the cosmos. All of that, yeah.

Chelle: Yeah. Yeah. So, that's what I am visualizing when I'm thinking spirit. When I am visualizing deity, I have a face, you know what I'm saying?

Laylla: Yeah. You know, it's interesting because I like the idea of universe as everything. To me, when I talk about universe or universal energy, I'm talking about exactly that, spirit, the all, the everything, and it isn't a deity, but it is everything.

Chelle: But, it's all encompassing.

Laylla: Exactly. And like you said, a deity has a face. They have a name. They have a backstory. They have history behind them. They are a face of spirit. They are an aspect of spirit, but they are not all of spirit.

Chelle: So, now let's talk about what spirit is. Now that we've talked about what spirit is not, I think of it as this all-encompassing energy that kind of in my mind, what I'm visualizing is it taking that earth, air, fire, water, my energy, deity energy, and kind of in one big swirly snow globe of wonderfulness. Spirit is kind of the all-knowing in my mind, kind of the I don't want to say the end-all be-all, but kind of.

Laylla: And another way I heard it described very beautifully, I don't remember who told me this, it might have been Kate of Kate and Frank fame back in the day, some of my first teachers. Hey, Kate.

Chelle: Hey, Kate.

Laylla: Okay. We've all seen the the pentacle, right, as a description of the elements.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: And people will ascribe air, fire, water, earth to the different points of the pentacle.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: And some people will say that the top point is spirit.

Chelle: Correct.

Laylla: I was taught that the top point is self and that spirit is the lines that make up the pentacle.

Chelle: Oh. Oh, shit. I like that. I've never heard that, actually.

Laylla: Isn't that beautiful? Because spirit is what makes it all. Spirit's what connects it all together. Oh, I like that. I love that. It is between everything, and it creates everything. If you didn't have spirit, you wouldn't have that pentacle to have the elements on it.

Chelle: See, now, as much as I love that, in my mind, I think maybe instead of self, instead of self, that could be where I would place deity.

Laylla: Could be. Yeah, sure. Absolutely. But, I also think that deity is self. I think that we are deity. And so, that fits for me that I could interchange those in my mind, in my belief system. All life is deity. You're deity. I'm deity. Namaste, the divine light within me recognizes the divine light within you kind of thing.

Chelle: Well, remember that photo where they equate the human body to the pentacle, you know, with the guy spread out. The point is his head. So, kind of like your knowledge, your inner your inner Your inner deity, your inner divine self. Yeah. Oh, I love that. So, that's kind of what I was taught is that that's that's what spirit is. You know, it's a little hard to describe sometimes because it's that ineffable something that gives us life. Sometimes I describe it as chaos. And, all right, for all of you purists out there, I am not talking about the Austin Osman Spare version of chaos magic. I'm talking about chaos itself, the chaos of nature, the chaos of life, the chaos that somehow made some little organism crawl out of the ocean and become Chelle and I talking to you on these microphones. That chaos, that spark of wild random chance, that chaos to me is spirit. And so, that's hard to describe. It's hard to pin down.

Chelle: And that's why it was a little I was a little antsy about this particular episode because I'm like, how the hell do you describe spirit to someone? You know?

Laylla: Yeah. And another good way to talk about it is is in symbolism. We touched on it a little bit with the with the pentacle. But, there are a lot of symbols that people throughout time have used to depict spirit.

Chelle: And the sky and the universe have been been some of those depictions. And I think that is maybe where I get that thought of when I when I visualize spirit energy, I'm kind of visualizing the stars out in space, you know, that idea of space to me.

Laylla: Yeah, something beyond what we can touch, that magical fire that's out there. Now, say I'm doing some sort of sigils on candles, for example, and, you know, how you have your symbol for fire, you have your symbol for water. So, what I what I use for a symbol of spirit is actually the star. I'm not saying a pentacle per se. I'm saying a star. And sometimes when I have used a star to represent spirit, I color it in so it is distinctively not a pentacle.

Laylla: I see.

Chelle: Because of that visualization of space being what works for me, and so that that star is that spirit energy. And again, I am distinguishing a star separate from a pentacle.

Laylla: I like that. And and it's interesting because one of the symbols that I see a lot representing spirit is a circle, but not the line of the circle, the center of the circle, the nothingness that's right there.

Chelle: Like an actual circle itself.

Laylla: Yeah, like the empty center of a circle sometimes will represent spirit. And I think that's interesting because when we would call spirit, if we're doing say what we would think of as a traditional circle, we would call deity as a representative of spirit to fill the center of the circle.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: And I do see sometimes, when you're talking about putting things on an altar, sometimes people will just leave the center of the altar empty to represent spirit because that's a place for spirit to fill. So, you'll see that sometimes, is an empty vessel or even just an empty space to represent a space for that spirit to come into.

Chelle: See, now, as far as altar setup, I kind of look at the altar itself as spirit holding up all the other elements. So, I look at the actual altar as the spirit tool holding up and encompassing all of the other tools and elements.

Laylla: I love that idea. Could do that intentionally and draw sigils on the altar itself as a representation of spirit. Put oils on it or rub incenses into it. Put it out under the moon or the sun to absorb energy to be that spirit representation.

Chelle: And then the neighbors like, "Hey, Nancy, look at those neighbors. They put all of their little side tables out in the yard for the night and then brought them back in. What's going on over there?"

Laylla: I'm pretty sure when I lived in Rochester, my neighbors probably said shit like that on a regular basis. Like, "Hey, Nancy, the neighbors putting weird crap out in the backyard again."

Chelle: Why why is their window sill always full of rocks?

Laylla: One of the other representations that I really love for spirit is the spiral.

Chelle: Absolutely. Absolutely.

Laylla: Spiral just like spirit represents evolution. It represents growth of the spirit. It's a symbol of change and movement.

Chelle: We've done something with with spirals before. I feel like we've done something not too long ago with spirals. We did this fool's journey back in March at the Sacred Space Conference down in Maryland. So let's let's talk about how our fool's journey ritual kind of relates to this.

Laylla: Spirit energy is that liminal space. Right? We talked about it being the lines itself of the pentacle. And spirals are one of the oldest symbols of spirit energy. Spirit is the unseen thread that connects and animates everything, all of existence. And spirals represent that energy. They're the path of awakening, the journey of the soul. They begin at the center with the self and they spiral outward to the universe or back inward towards your own self, towards your personal divine truth. Spirals represent that spirit energy that flows through all things. And that's kind of what we talked about when we did that ritual, the fool's journey, was finding that spark within yourself, wherever you happen to be on that spiral. If you keep walking that, you're going to come back to yourself at some point. You know, you're going to find that deity within yourself. That spiral represents the sacred. It's the first step of a journey. You know, it's the fool's journey of that sacred self, that sacred hero's journey that we all kind of go on. And it's that liminal space where everything is possible. That's what spirit represents. You know, spirit is that spark. It's that potential.

Chelle: That moment right before the spark.

Laylla: Exactly. It's everything and nothing.

Chelle: And you know, when I talked about my visualization, you know, of of of space in the universe and the stars, you mentioned that even the spirals and the nebulas and, you know, I said the Milky Way, these are the same spirals as a labyrinth or something similar, you know, and they all they all kind of swirl around and and, you know, you think, well, how does a spiral doesn't it just keep tightening in on itself? Not necessarily.

Laylla: Labyrinths are an excellent representation for spirit because much like a spiral, they represent the journey of the soul. Just like life, there's only one way in and one way out. It's the same path spiraling in and out through infinity. Walking a labyrinth is my favorite way to get in touch with that spirit energy. The path walking and switching directions is really good for your brain and can be a meditative and hypnotic tool as well.

Chelle: Perfect word. Spirit also makes me think of infinity.

Laylla: Spirals kind of look like that. It looks like there's no beginning and no ending.

Chelle: Like when you're in the fun house looking through the looking through those like back to back mirrors and it looks like you go on forever. Right.

Laylla: And spirals are some of the oldest symbology that people had to represent the energy of deity or the energy of the ineffable. And they would put it on goddesses. They'd put it on Newgrange. They'd put it on rocks and carved it into stone all over the place because this idea of the spiral of deity is so magical to people. It's a concept that has fascinated people for a very long time. And another representation is back to one of your favorite shells, a mirror.

Chelle: Love a good mirror.

Laylla: Both your own reflection and just the mirror itself as a liminal space.

Chelle: I do like the mirror on mirror, though, with that because it gives you that that infinity. All things are infinite.

Laylla: Oh, you mean like facing one mirror to another so that they reflect each other back, back, back, back, back to infinity? Yeah, if I look at that too long, it totally trips me out.

Chelle: Yeah, it it it reminds you that there is an infinity to all things. You know, and you might say, well, you know, not for me. I'm not going to live forever. No, but your spirit moves on and and we all dust in the wind, but but I feel personally that we all continue to exist on some level. So, yeah, infinity. It it represents infinity to me.

Laylla: We've talked before about using mirrors, particularly in like water scrying and things like that.

Chelle: Or divination. Yep.

Laylla: What I like to represent the liminal space that is spirit is if you take a very thin veil, preferably something that you can see through, and put that over a mirror because now you've got the dual representation of liminal spaces. You've got a mirror and you've also got a veil over top of it. If you shine the light on it and it's a nice thin veil so you can just kind of see through to the mirror on the other side, I find that that's a really nice way, if you can get yourself into an alpha meditative state and gaze into a mirror like that, that's more of a representation of looking into spirit, looking into that liminal spirit space.

Chelle: I was going to say that gives me vibes of like crossing through the veil, having that connection with the spirit world when you do the veil over the mirror. That is like the greatest representation for divination in my opinion. I mean, you're talking about spirit, but all things go back to divination with me.

Laylla: Well, spirit is the realm of divination. I mean, yeah.

Chelle: Yeah, but it gives that vibe of crossing the literal veil. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.

Laylla: Yeah. And our brains love that. Our brains love when the physical representation matches the magical representation. Right. Right. Right. So you put that mirror underneath a literal veil, your brain says, "Ooh, I'm crossing the veil to get to the information on the other side." You're in the spirit realm.

Chelle: Right. And you know, I like how you just phrased that, the spirit realm. That's again how I view spirit is more of a a place, not a place, a time, not a time. You know what I mean?

Laylla: Yeah. You know, when we cast circle, and again, it's that circle, we say, "This is a space out of space and a time out of time." We are casting it to bring us into that realm, that realm of magic, that realm of other knowing and other being. And so again, it's that circle, no beginning, no end, and we cast that magical space where we stand in the center, again, in that spirit realm, which does contain spirits like ancestor spirits, land spirits, but more by spirit realm, we mean magical space, liminal space, space of the all knowing, the all being.

Chelle: Yeah. Not my grandma.

Laylla: This is so hard to pin down. This is hard to talk about, Chelle.

Chelle: It really is because, you know, my grandma is a spirit and I love her, but when I am invoking spirit, my grandma knows I'm not calling her. Right? She's not what I mean.

Laylla: She's part of it. Everything's part of it, but deity's part of it.

Chelle: I'm looking for the all. Right. You're looking for the everything. Like like the all knowing, all thing, the Well, no, that I don't mean all thing in the Norse all thing. I mean all things, like everything, the all of everything.

Chelle: Spirit is the most complicated element, I think, to tackle out of all five.

Laylla: How do you how do you talk about like like what is what is the spark of life? Where did we come from? Where did knowledge come from? How did we all of a sudden become sentient? That spark is spirit.

Chelle: How did we go from ape to human? I don't know. How how do we have a podcast right at this very moment? If we could figure that out, who even are we? I don't even know. But if we could figure out what that divine spark is, what is that? What is that soul, that center, that everything, then we could tell the people what spirit is.

Laylla: That'll have an answer for you, guys. Yeah, we're we're still we need more weed. A little more weed, a little more books, a little more time. More books. Oh, yeah. Oh, I love books.

Chelle: This is the best explanation I can give you after 35 years. That's all. There you go. So, and Laylla's going to hate this. Oh, lord. Are we talking about journaling? Yes. Damn you. See, I knew you were going to But the best way to connect with spirit is stillness, is quiet. In those quiet moments, those quiet, still

Chelle: If you're supposed to be still, how are you writing in a journal?

Laylla: After. You write after. You have your quiet, still moment, and then you reflect on it. And I really do think you should write it down. You could just think it to yourself, but it's going to be better if you write it down so that you don't forget. Write just keywords, write feelings, but spirit is found in those moments that are hard to describe, those those moments of pure perfection.

Chelle: Spirit's going to be found when you're carrying around that backpack full of journals that Laylla makes you write every day. Yeah. Write 50 pages a day. No. Write write a page a day for every day of your life and you will find enlightenment, my child. No, I I don't know where enlightenment is. I don't know where that moment of stillness of beautiful perfection is, but I've found it. I still chase it. But that's one of those places where you can find spirit. I really do feel that meditation and and deep reflection is one of those places.

Chelle: But I also think that at different phases and stages of your life, what that is can be different. Where I would go mentally to a place for spirit 30 years ago isn't necessarily where I would have gone 20 years ago, which isn't necessarily where I'd go now. So, just as the world evolves, our thoughts, our ideas, and and how we view things evolves.

Laylla: I was thinking about times when have I felt spirit. And and we talked about times in ritual when we've invoked deity or when we've drawn down the moon or drawn down the goddess. And those have been pretty special moments, but I've also felt deity when I first met my husband. I was there. Yeah, that spark, that weird, divine amazingness. There's been times I've been out in nature, many, so many, thankfully.

Chelle: Feeling you you you get that feeling just in the middle of the woods.

Laylla: There've been times when everything just converges and I just have to sit back because that moment is so perfect. It's just so wonderful. And that to me is also that divine spark, that spirit.

Chelle: You know, it's funny that you make it sound so beautiful and and romantic because not too long ago, during this series actually, right before we were doing the water episode, we happened to have a hurricane go off the coast of Massachusetts. And me and my sweet darling had to go down to the water because, you know, I love a good rager. And I felt that same energy when high tide was coming in and it was I mean, the waves were big. But I'm, you know, I'm from the woods, so I thought they were big. My sweet darling was like, "Yeah, they're only 7, 8 foot waves." I'm like, "7, 8 foot waves!"

Laylla: Yeah, that's amazing.

Chelle: That undeniable energy, the wind, the water. I mean, I understand that there wasn't a fire piece there, but you can just it's almost like you felt everything in the universe in kind of a rage. And you get that moment of feeling spirit. An angry spirit. Yeah. Yeah, it doesn't have to always be that perfect quiet moment, right? You know, it can be a wild, raging Sometimes they're amazing moments. And feeling that awe, that inspiration, that is to me is also spirit. But sometimes standing out in the middle of a wild, raging storm or when the waves are crashing, that can be pretty powerful and awe-inspiring as well.

Chelle: I can also say the same thing about when I popped out two kids. Um, so, you know, that just changes depending on you feel it in different moments and time in different ways.

Laylla: Absolutely. Absolutely.

Chelle: Wow, I said that so weird. Popped out two children. I didn't mean that in a bad way. I love them both.

Laylla: Sweethearts. So sweet. But we've talked before about artists and creators or workaholics, whatever you happen to do, if you ever get into that flow state where everything just seems to be coming perfectly and it's working and and you're you're writing down everything and everything's coming together, yes, this is perfect, perfect.

Chelle: I just had an Amy Blackthorn moment of her writing. Yeah.

Laylla: But yeah, you know, you get into that kind of flow state. That perfection, that feeling, that is also spirit, that feeling when everything is just right.

Chelle: It's like the perfect storm. Yeah. It's funny that I said that because that goes back to that can be that chaotic, uncontrollable energy. It can the perfect storm can be good and bad.

Laylla: Oh, yeah. This isn't always good. Right. Oh, yeah. This energy of creation is also the energy of destruction. Right. Right. This is all things. Spirit is everything. It is the it is the line that encompasses everything, that connects all of us and everything. Good and bad and everything in between.

Chelle: That's why I love that you describe it as the lines of the pentacle because you see it as what creates it and I see it encompassing it all. Perfect blend. Perfect blend.

Laylla: Yeah, perfect blend. I love that. Like our weird remembrance of 10,000 goddesses.

Chelle: It was a real book, damn it.

Laylla: I'm pretty sure it was that had two different covers somehow. It was the Janet and Stewart Farrar cover. You're just remembering that piece wrong.

Laylla: But those two books, The Witches' Goddess and The Book of Goddesses and Heroines are what we have been misremembering as the book of 10,000 goddesses. Or we fell into an alternate universe or Mandela effect or whatever. But we have those two books and we will put pictures of them on our socials to try and help out. But yeah, I get that question a lot, so.

Chelle: I'm sorry. I'm sorry, everybody, that we had some weird Mandela effect and that we've put you on like this rabbit hole looking for a book that doesn't exist because it does.

Laylla: I can't tell you how many times I have had to type out, "I am so sorry. Chelle and I have memories like Swiss cheese." No, that book does not exist.

Chelle: This I know for sure. This I know for sure.

Laylla: It existed. We know it did. Just because we can't find it doesn't mean anything.

Chelle: And just because we remember it having different covers doesn't mean anything. Doesn't mean anything either. That's right. Have we have we just smoked too much weed over the last 30 years? Never. No. No, that can't be it. I refuse to let that be the answer. All right. So, on that note, up next will be the spirit meditation coming in a few days. Thank you guys all for your encouragement on that. If you like the meditations, please make some comments in our Facebook group, the Back on the Broomstick Podcast Discussion Group, run by the wonderful, the amazing, the awesome, the queen of Facebook, Helen Jojo. We adore you. There's also a Reddit group, a little quieter, but still a great group of people.

Chelle: And I still can't even figure out that Reddit thing. I'm getting there. I'm getting there.

Laylla: You'll get there. Back on the Broomstick. But yeah, let me know if you like these and what you want to see. For Gail, I'm going to put out, probably in the next week or so, the Crystal Cave meditation from the lovely Official Witch of Salem, Laurie Cabot. Yeah. So I'll be doing that as a guided meditation for everybody.

Chelle: And we want to thank everybody for all the love you've shown for this five-part series on the elements. We want to start bringing you some things that you can kind of practice in your daily life. And we appreciate all the love.

Laylla: Thank you so much for hanging out with us on this episode of Back on the Broomstick. Coming up, we have some wonderful surprises for you guys. We've got some great topics coming up. We're getting into September here. Mabon/the autumn equinox is coming up, and we are headed fast into October in the season of the witch. In the meantime, be wise, be wicked.

Chelle: And keep it witchy, folks.
