Laylla: Hey listeners, just a heads up before this episode. Our conversation with Ness Bosch gets a little dark. It gets a little deep, kind of like this time of year. You know, it is the dark part of the year. We are in the dark season, and it is time to do that dark work, that deep work, and have those dark conversations. And tonight, we are going to have one of those dark conversations, so we just wanted you to prepare yourself. I do want to stress that this episode gets into some dark topics, not only about death, but also rape and suicide. So if this is not the time for you to listen to this episode, we get it. It's okay, and we want you to take care of yourself first.

Welcome to Back on the Broomstick, a modern witch's spoken word grimoire, where two witchy friends from way back are reconnecting to their pagan roots after a long period of mundanity. We're rewalking the path of the wise and trying out all the latest spells, rituals, and magical theory in today's witchcraft and pagan practices. So grab your wand and your incense, your cauldron and your crystals, and join us as we get back on the broomstick.

Welcome to Back on the Broomstick. I'm Laylla, and for this episode, we are sitting down with Ness Bosch, the author of Sacred Bones, Magic Bones: Stories from the Path of Bones. Ness is also a shamaness and priestess, and founder and head of many, many pagan groups, including the Covenant of the Waters, the Temple of Astarte, and the Goddess Community Scotland.

Chelle: I'm Chelle, and we actually met Ness at Sacred Space, which is a fabulous conference we've talked about in the past. But it was such a pleasure to meet you, and I think the first thing that pointed me out to you was that beautiful long dark hair, and then Sacred Bones, Magic Bones. Laylla's a bone girl, and that immediately drew me to you because you and Laylla have this bone thing. I am I'm I'm very afraid of bones. I don't know what it is. I'll look at them. I don't like to touch them. But we ended up having nice conversation. We hung out at Sacred Space, and we had a lovely time. So we are so glad that you could join us today, Ness. And if you could just tell us a little bit about yourself and tell our listeners a little bit about you.

Ness: Uh well, thank you for having me. It was It was such a gift to meet you and everyone in Sacred Space, and it was also wonderful to to share uh also one of my workshops uh with Laylla. Um so as you said, you know, I am a shamaness and a priestess. I'm Iberian. I'm from the Iberian Peninsula. I'm Spanish, but I I lived in I live in Scotland, where I am, as you said, founder member of the Goddess Community Scotland. And um I'm, as you know, I'm I'm a mom. I got three beautiful children, two of them quite young, so they keep me busy. I try to work and write in between, and teach, and and do the things I do. And I also study. I'm a student in the university. I'm studying archaeology.

Laylla: Mm. Well, that makes a lot of sense.

Ness: Focusing on on the archaeology of ritual, mainly.

Chelle: It seems like archaeology fits you like a glove. So speaking of archaeology and and your fascination with bones, your wonderful book about bones, and again, Laylla will put all the links um in the show notes uh to your books, to your website, your socials. But we are at the time of year where bones are are big part of ritual. Ancestor work is becoming a big part of this seasonal ritual time. So we want to start and talk a little bit about bones, a little bit about ancestors. My first question, and this is what I always say to Laylla, why work with bones? What is the connection we are getting by working with bones? Can we start there?

Ness: Absolutely. I mean, we start where you want. And I think that's I think that's a wonderful question, actually. Why bones? If, you know, in my book, I talk about both animal and human bones, okay? And I I speak about how bones are a gift of connection. The bones embody the energy of the animal, of the human, uh that once was held by those bones. Mhm. So I do believe that bones are the very special container of spirit.

Laylla: I love that you called it a container of spirit. That's a very cool way to put it.

Ness: Yeah. And obviously, I'm not the only one that thinks that because back back in the day, you know, in prehistory, our own ancestors uh worshipped the bones, you know? They they look after the the bones of their ancestors, you know? They worshipped them. They they look after them. They did rituals for them, you know? They carry them around. The the mummies, you know, like fetish, you know? They if they moved from one place to the other, there's some some tribes actually used to carry their mummies of their ancestors with them. It's like, "No, you're coming with me." You know, "You belong to me. I belong to you, so you come with me wherever I go." And other cultures used to bury their their ancestors in the earth, you know, earth in the in the kitchens, you know? And and so obviously, the humanity has been aware of that power of the bones, of that magic of the bones, you know? We can look at bones as a magic box, you know? They contain that spirit. And that's why they're so special.

Chelle: I was going to say, as much as I say I don't like bones, now you've kind of brought to light why I have a big container of both of my children's baby teeth.

Ness: Yes.

Laylla: And that was something that I was going to mention is that even before we knew that bones contain our DNA, that you can tell the history of where someone was from and what their diet was and even how they lived and how they died by their bones, by this magical record of who we are, we also know that it reaches back through our DNA. But even before we knew all that scientifically, our ancestors created all these rituals around, like you were saying, Ness, honoring the bones. As someone passed, we have all these funeral rites and all these rituals where the bones are are honored and kept in some way. And even today, we still do that. And and I was going to mention, Chelle, that here in America, and I know around the world, a lot of people have rituals with baby teeth. The tooth fairy is pretty prevalent in American society.

Ness: Yeah. And and I I mention the teeth in in my book as well because my my mom used to keep all our teeth, you know? She used to put them in in a in a wee box and and, you know, she and I actually, for my book, I I created a ritual to protect our children, our family, by using the teeth of our children.

Laylla: I did something similar with my children. When when they first started losing their teeth, I had little boxes that I created. Admittedly, the first one was a pill box that I decorated, but then I made cute little boxes. But I I imbued them with energy to protect my children. And as they would lose their teeth, I would hide them in in those in those little boxes. And I kept them with me through all these different moves, and I would keep their teeth in these little and spelled boxes. And then when they each reached uh adulthood at age 18, I ritually released those to give their energy, you know, now they're adults. I'm no longer I mean, I'm still their mother and still connected, but to give that energy back to them by releasing those teeth. That was kind of my personal ritual with with the teeth.

Ness: So you're no longer the keeper of their bones.

Laylla: Yes. They Oh, that's yes.

Ness: They need to look after their own bones.

Laylla: Oh, oh, you said that so beautifully. Yes, exactly. Exactly.

Ness: Yeah.

Laylla: Yeah. And and so even though we don't realize it, you know, that is a that is a a carryover from from us honoring the bones of the people that we love, even if we don't realize that's what we're doing.

Ness: Yeah. And obviously, you know, we are literally and as as we approach the end of September, we are literally, I mean, once we we close the the the portal of the equinox, we are literally in in ancestor season, okay? You know, this is not about waiting for the for Samhain, you know, or the 31st of of October. No, no. Ancestor season begins with the autumn. And there is when I, you know, when the wind comes back blowing cold, you know, after the summer, and we see the leaves flying about, and then is when I I can I can hear the song of the ancestors, you know, coming with the autumn, you know, playing with the leaves, you know, singing like a flute in around me. You know, the ancestors are already calling for their bones. They're calling for their bones. They're coming They're calling their children, their grandchildren, to remember. "Remember me. I'm coming with the winter. You know, I'm coming with the autumn. You know, remember me. I'm coming." And that's the song of the season, you know? That's why I have a program I share with people online. You know, it's called, you know, Your Blood and Bones. And I start this program like the beginning of October because we need time to connect with the ancestors before we reach the portal of Samhain, you know, be- before we we reach that date. We we have a job to connect with the ancestors and and prepare their shrines and and their altars, you know? And and so, yeah.

Chelle: That preparation period. Yeah, we have a preparation period, and it's about now.

Ness: Yeah, yeah. Yeah, because if you think about it, we go through the gate of autumn in the north, obviously. We are in the north. Uh so we we cross that gate, and everything, you know, this song of bones, this ancestors start singing to us, you know? So is we need we're connecting to death, okay? So this is the season where we connect to the death, we connect to the past, we connect to the shadows of the season, you know, our own our own shadows. You know, we already had a very long year before we enter this portal. And the season, all this work, prepare us to literally die.

Laylla: Hey witches, future Laylla here.

Chelle: Future Chelle here. Wait, I'm usually not future Chelle here. This is weird.

Laylla: I know, how funny. We're just popping in to let you know she means figuratively.

Chelle: Not literally. She means figuratively.

Laylla: Figuratively. A lot of the themes and the mythology around this time of year involve figurative death, figuratively sacrificing ideas or habits or things in your life that no longer serve you, not literally. So just keep it in mind, she means figuratively. All right, so that's it for now. Future Laylla.

Chelle: And future Chelle.

Laylla: Out.

Ness: In the last days of the year, before we cross the next portal, before we we go through through the winter solstice portal, we literally have this few days before the solstice where we literally die. It's all about death. It's about dying before we can receive the light and go back to to life.

Laylla: It's the Persephone time. This is where she goes within. This is the Inanna going down. This is when it begins. It's it's like you said, it's not a it's not a quick, "Now's the time, here's the doorway." It's a it's a liminal space. It's a it's a gradual descending into the darkness. And it's honoring that descent in however we see that, and it's recognizing we need to get ready for that journey. It's it's taking those steps to connect with that energy, I think, and finding that. And for me, I find myself a lot of times, I go out a lot more. As the days are getting darker, I find myself clinging even more to the sunny days and being able to go out into my woods a little bit, I think. You know, there's that rage, rage against the dying of the light kind of moment happening. And and so I really look for that. But I also find that one of my practices is to decorate a lot this time of year. You know, we bring the season in, the pumpkins and the the dying leaves and the I happen to have a lot of bones. Chelle, maybe not. But I have I have deer skulls and antlers that I usually have year-round. But is there anything that you do to prepare for this time of year?

Ness: Uh well, like you, I try very much to be present with the season and to just try to connect and try to dance with the energies of the season because we are living in this crazy world where our times are marked by what you need to do during the day, you know, what you need to work, or you're looking after the children, or whatever. We hardly have time, you know, that time for connection. So I do make an effort to connect with the season and just tune in and just kind of open my heart and say, "I'm ready to die again this year," you know? And actually, last month, because uh I have uh in my Patreon, the Invisible Sandals, I share with with my students in in Patreon a ritual to literally kill themselves.

Laylla: She means figuratively. Not literally. She means figuratively.

Ness: In the last days of the year. Like, is there something you need you want to kill? You want to let die before we cross the portal? So I actually share a ritual, and I said to them, "I know it's summer, but this is a very serious ritual. You need to get ready for this, and you need to prepare through the season till you get to this moment." And if you're ready to die, if you're ready to kill part of yourself, if you're ready to kill what no longer serves you, you need to prepare to do, you know, be prepared to do this. So, yeah, they're very much uh getting ready for that.

Laylla: You mentioned summer, and I'm so glad you did because one of the things I wanted to touch on very quickly is the dark half of the year started at the summer solstice.

Ness: Yeah.

Laylla: That's when the dark half of the year starts. And I know some people forget that, but that's when it really the days are really starting to get shorter then. And now at the equinox is when we really notice it because now, oh crap, now it really is half and half, and the dark we can really see the dark. I love that you have them start in the summer because that's when the dark work really begins.

Ness: Yeah.

Chelle: I liked when you said that this is the time to kind of kill the things in yourself that no longer serve you because one thing I like to do this time of year is make lists of things that I need to be done with, put behind me, get over, move on.

Ness: But, you know, the whole point about this ritual was like using those very last days of the year, because for me, the year ends right, you know, with the solstice, right? Right. So those days before the solstice are the darkest ones of the year. It's literally about death. And also, winter is death. Winter has been death in many cultures. Many deities are related to to winter, also related to death, you know, like Cailleach and and, you know, different goddesses or different deities. So the whole point was like, okay, so let's use this death, these days of death, of pure darkness, to do deep shadow work. And and use that power, you know, that powerful time uh right before the solstice to literally cleanse and kill whatever part of ourselves that no longer serve us, or to kill I mean, and talking like to kill, but we know it's in a hypothetical death, no? But uh to kind of, yeah, kill something, whatever we need to kill in those days so it doesn't cross the portal to the new year.

Chelle: You're not taking it with you into the next year. You're leaving it in the dead days.

Ness: So for me, it was like, you know, everyone is, yeah, Christmas, you know, everyone, a lot of people celebrate Christmas, or the solstice is is a happy holiday. But really, we should be doing shadow work before the solstice. So that was the whole intention.

Laylla: Yeah, that that is the time of the Cailleach. That is when she is walking the land, and she is very scary. Death is scary. You know, and I and I think even if it's a symbolic death like you're talking about, you know, setting those things down, much like, you know, Inanna taking off each piece as she's descending, you you set aside what what doesn't serve you, or you set aside offerings. But that's difficult. That's hard for people. You know, we're afraid of the Cailleach. We're afraid of the dark. We're afraid of—

Chelle: But you also have to remember what you don't shed, you'll end up carrying with you again to the next phase. And sometimes that's the worst thing you could do for yourself.

Ness: Yeah, absolutely. That's why I thought, "You know what? I need something hardcore. I'm going to go for this." And I'm going to share it with my people in Patreon, and I'm going to send it to the, you know, I I actually said to the editor, "Do you want a a winter ritual? Would you be happy with?" She was like, "Yeah, send me a ritual." And she got it.

Laylla: Yeah, that might not be the sugar plums and pretty stars ritual she was thinking of, but it's definitely timely and seasonal, that's for sure.

Ness: Yeah. And at the end of the day, as as a shamaness, you know, I'm a shadow hunter. And that's what I help others to do, you know, to hunt for their own shadows. So.

Laylla: As someone who is comfortable walking in that shadow realm, as someone who can walk the liminal like that, is there any advice or is there something that you could help prepare people so that they're not so afraid of that space? Helping someone to maybe identify what they need to to kill off in their life or to let go of. If they're afraid of letting go of that, is there any advice or is there anything that you would recommend to someone that they could do to face those shadows?

Ness: I mean, I can say to people, talk to yourself. You know how much this is affecting your life. You know how much this is controlling your happiness, your day-by-day. So, if you really tap into yourself and you know how disturbing or or sometimes destructive it can be for you to carry that burden, then you you're going to do for yourself whatever you need to do so you don't carry that burden anymore.

Laylla: Sometimes you have to just have that honest conversation with yourself.

Guest: Yeah, yeah. Yeah, absolutely.

Laylla: And sometimes it's easier for me to do things if I think I'm doing them for other people. So, I like how you said to to have that conversation with yourself. And yes, Chelle, I'm going to mention journaling. But if you write it down, like like write it down like you're giving advice to someone else. Like if your problem is say, you know, procrastination or whatever, what advice would you give your best friend if they're struggling with procrastination? Write that down, you know, and be that support for yourself. And maybe sometimes if you can't find the strength to face those things for yourself, maybe if you pretend you're doing it for someone else, sometimes you can find that strength.

Guest: Yeah. And, you know, in this ritual I mentioned, I actually also included uh something for because, you know, sometimes we carry the energy of other people. We carry the energy of others other people act people's actions. You know, and things like that. So, as part of the ritual, I also try to tap into killing whatever we carry from other people and get rid of that to free ourselves.

Chelle: Cut those ties. That's such a good point. You know, we do, we make those ties sometimes even when we shouldn't or even when it's hurting ourselves, and being able to let that go is very important.

Guest: Yeah.

Laylla: We talked about a little bit about ancestors and and deity and and working with those energies. Do you have anything where you like to give back or to maybe make offerings to deity or to land spirits in in that way? Are there any type of rituals or anything you do to to recognize in that way?

Guest: I'm I'm always making offerings to the spirits. Always. It's something something I do, especially to, you know, to the local spirits. I I normally I normally keep my my altar, but I'm I'm packing boxes as we speak cuz I'm sending some stuff to Spain. Uh so, I have dismantled my my altars. But, I normally go to visit a local river, and we go to to see this river. I go with my children, and sometimes it's them that say, "Mom, let's go and buy some milk for Carmel." You know, and and we go and buy some milk for the river, and we go, we make, you know, we do a prayer together, and we offer Carmel milk and whatever we find in the shops, like pancakes and, you know. And so, I'm always making offerings for the spirits, always.

Laylla: I love that. One of the questions we get sometimes from our listeners is if they make an offering, you know, if they're not maybe someplace where they can go to a river or outdoors to to make offerings to the land spirits or to ancestors, how can you make that offering in a big city?

Guest: Ah, you mean how do you make that offering in a big city?

Laylla: Yeah, if you don't have the land.

Guest: Okay. Well, the big city is just a box. You know, the big city is just a box of the middle of somewhere, right? And if you open that window, there is still wind blowing and there are stars in the sky. You know, that's not going away even if you live in a city, even if you don't if you don't see them, they're still there. We look at the same stars and the same moon that our ancestors our ancestors worship. There are birds. There are still wee animals in the city, you know, the parks. There are trees. You might not be in the middle of the forest, but the sacred is, you know, all over the place, even if we are in a city. I go to pick up my wee boy from school, and we cross a very, very busy road, and just at the other side, it's it's this huge tree. And it's it's very, you know, it's just grass, this big tree near next to the road. But when we cross the road, immediately, we go under the tree and we say hello. You know, it's like, "Hello," you know, "we can see you," and and we're here. And my boy and and my girl as well when she was wee, if we, you know, if she found moss, moss somewhere in a wall, he she will stop and say, "Hello, moss." You know, and just touch the moss. And my wee one does the same, you know, my wee boy just touches the moss and say, "Oh, mom, mom, there is moss. Can I say hello?" "Yeah, yeah, just go and say hello to the moss." And he just goes, touches the moss, and says hello. So, you see, there is life and sacred all around us. It doesn't matter where you are. You can still connect to the sacred. You can you can do that.

Laylla: You mentioned that your children are so connected to the natural world. I I've I've heard an interview with you in the past where you mentioned being very connected to the water and to the sea, and part of that has to do with your father and your childhood.

Guest: Yes.

Laylla: Chelle is also very much a water priestess. Uh would you mind telling us a little bit about your connection to animism and to the sea?

Guest: Yeah. Well, you know, I my dad was a scuba diver in the army. So, I was scuba diving before I was properly running, you know. And yeah, so I learned scuba diving with my dad. He was always surfing, or we were always sailing. I spent my days by the beach eating whatever I could find on the beach. I had my knife, and I could just go and get stuff and feed myself. So, make a fire and cook some food or eat some stuff raw that I knew I could eat, you know. Um so, yeah, I always had this special relationship with with the sea. But then my mom is from the mountains, and in the mountains, I enjoyed this roaming in these wild spaces, you know, proper wild forest with waterfalls and beautiful rivers, you know, and ponds, and so, I was kind of in between the mountains and the sea, and but there was always water. There was always water for me.

Laylla: It sounds like your childhood was very deeply connected to the earth and to natural spaces.

Guest: Yeah, yeah. Obviously, I didn't know I was a neurodivergent person when I was little. My mom just said I was too, you know, she used to say I was too much. I had too much energy. But I guess me being a neurodivergent person, and also a dreamwalker, being a dreamwalker, because I always been a dreamwalker, uh walking in between, you know, dimensions and places since I was little, I guess these sensory issues that I have when I go out to the world and everything is too noisy, everything is too much, you know, when I go to nature, that was for me was like, it opened that huge connection, you know, to nature uh in a very special way. And my whole childhood was like very animistic, you know, everything. I was literally connected to everything around me, plus being a dreamwalker and being connected to the spirits and and spirits coming to me because they they knew I I, you know, I could listen to them, I could, you know, and things like that. So, I think it was all set up for me from the beginning.

Laylla: Does that make this time of year difficult for you, being a dreamwalker and being in connection with the spirit world like that?

Guest: Sometimes it's heavy, yes. Sometimes it's heavy.

Chelle: Now, for folks who have kind of that similar type of connection, do you have any recommendations to kind of turn it down for a little while, shut it off for a little while, so you're getting that kind of mental and spiritual break from being bombarded by spirit?

Guest: Yeah. You got your contracts, right? So, write down the best clauses you can for yourself. If you know what's coming, set up your clauses and and say, "Okay, so this is my line. I'm not crossing this line. I don't want anything to cross this line because I am, you know, I have my space, I got my responsibilities, and I need to focus on what I need to do." So, set up your contract properly with the spirits.

Chelle: I like that. I like calling it a contract.

Guest: Yeah, absolutely. And and make sure when you are in service, it's very important that you are in service from consciousness. Okay, you are in service, you're not a slave. So, it's very different. You're not a slave to the spirits, you know. I am as a priestess, I serve, I serve the gods and and and and the spirits, but I got my own mortal life, and I need to be present here as well.

Laylla: Boundaries are important in spirit work just like they are in the in the the material world.

Guest: Yeah.

Laylla: With working with with spirits and and with ancestors, to kind of bring it back to bones, just just for a moment, I'd like to talk just a little bit about working with bones in practice. Because I know, you know, Chelle gets a little icked out by it. I do have some bones in my charm casting set. I have some bones on my altar and on my ancestor altar. And and I know the reasons why I use them, which is mainly because I I think that they contain so much of the universe. They they connect us to so many things, to each other, to to the past, to the earth, to the carbon that makes up the universe, I guess. And and so I feel that that very much just by seeing the bones of a creature or having that there, honoring the life of that being and and honoring the connection to the all is a lot how I see it and why I find them powerful in in my workings. Could you talk to us a little bit about working with bones and and and how you work with them or honor them in your practice?

Guest: You know, I I think for me is exactly the same that it is for you. I find them a way to connect to everything that is. And and when you and when you study the the biology of the bones, how they're formed, the minerals, everything, you you understand, you know, we are from the earth. We belong to the earth, you know, and and we are all connected by the bones because they contain the same material, you know. We are when you really go into the biology of it and and and how they're formed and their function and everything, uh it's easy to understand how we connect to the world around us, you know, to the to the world that that we walk in. And obviously, as you said, they connect me to those spirits. And for me, that's important, especially as as a shamaness, you know, as a spirit worker. I want to connect with the spirits. So, if I'm doing a ritual and I want to bring to my ritual uh deer energy or badger energy for whatever reason, you know, if I want to protect someone and I want to work with the badger because they're great protectors, I I actually have a badger tooth just there in a wee box, you know. Uh so, you know, I include that tooth as part of my ritual because I want to bring the energy of the badger to my to my work, you know. So, for me, well, I mentioned earlier that containers, you know, they're key to the energies, you know, to to those energies. So, I want to be able to to do that. Obviously, I honor those energies. I honor the spirit of those animals. I make offerings, you know. But basically, for me, they actually are a very important part of my work.

Laylla: I agree. I just think that they are, it's the, it's the, it's the magical framework that kind of powers this meat skeleton around and I I just, there's so much mystery to that for me. I I know that we understand them scientifically, but there's something mystical about them. I just, they last forever. I mean, we have bones from dinosaurs and and mammoths and people that lived thousands of years ago. We know about them because of their bones. That, yeah.

Guest: Yeah, but you see, they are, they really are that containers, you know. They really are, they really contain the memories of who we are as species, as human beings. They're storytellers. Bones are storytellers. They they have so many stories to tell. And everyone every time someone digs out a bone, there is a story being told by that very bone. So, that's why my book is is about bones, but but it's not spooky, you know. It is not spooky. It's I think it's it's a lovely book.

Laylla: It is a very lovely book. And I do highly recommend it. Again, the book is Sacred Bones, Magic Bones: Stories from the Path of the Bones. And it is full of stories. There's folklore in here, there's all sorts of information, there's things you can do. So, I do highly recommend it. Now, you have another book coming out in December, also looking forward to that. Tell us about that a little.

Guest: Yes. Of course. So, there is this anthology that is coming out in December, Divine Wounds. And basically, this anthology contains stories of healing, of feminine healing linked to the divine. For many, many women approach approach the goddess from a wound because they need healing, and they approach the goddess from that wound. But what a lot people a lot of people overlooked is that there are goddesses that they are really wounded, like really wounded as well. And it's funny because sometimes women seek, they vibrate with the same wound. They connect to the to the deities that carry the same wound, you know. And we sometimes we underestimate the power of working with a with a goddess that is wounded as a woman that is wounded. And we connect divine and human. We connect, you know, mortal and immortal. We connect through the wounds. And sometimes there are amazing stories that connects us, you know. So, yeah, the book, I I invited a beautiful bunch of of of ladies to share a story, to share a healing story connecting to a deity. And we put them together in this anthology because I think there is there is too much glitter, you know, when we talk goddess, you know, you know, people tend to think like, "Oh, yeah, neo-pagans, they're just about crowns and glitter and farting unicorns and." And it's like, no, you know, there a lot of people carry very deep wounds.

Chelle: There's a deeper, darker side.

Guest: Yeah, yeah. And there is a reason that it was this emerge re-emerge of the dark goddess some years ago because, you know, there is this shadow, this very deep shadow and deep pain and and deep wounds that we carry, you know, in the community as well. It's a lot of wounded people. Most of the the people I know in the pagan community, they have their own wounds as well, you know. And we just get together and we connect to the gods and we are together. So, this book is kind of kind of a bridge between mortals and immortals, you know, to kind of say, "Hey, you worship this goddess, maybe the goddess has wounds you don't, you know, you have not recognized, you have not mirrored these wounds. Look at the goddess again." You know, you might be actually been working with with this goddess because there are wounds that you share with this goddess. And and we do that unconsciously sometimes, but other times, we are fully conscious that we are we are approaching this goddess because we're wounded and we share the same wound. For, I'm going to give you an example. She's not a goddess, but she's kind of becoming a goddess because of the amount of the devotion and energy she's receiving. And I'm talking about Medusa. Okay.

Laylla: Yes. Yes, she's a good one for now.

Guest: Yeah. And I actually mention her in my in another book that is coming. I'm I'm I have another book coming. It's called Sacred Sacred Tattooing, you know.

Laylla: Yes.

Guest: About ritual tattoo, you know. And in in that book, I mention how some people that has suffered sexual abuse, they actually tattoo themselves Medusa as a way of connecting with her because she was also sexually abused, you know. And and I think Medusa is a great example on how how people connect to the myth and her story and her wound, especially if they can mirror their own wound, you know, with her, you know. They they just they stand in front of Medusa and they can recognize they can see the abuse and they can mirror the feelings, you know, with with with the spirit, you know, and so, I think she's a great example. And actually, one of the authors, uh C.N. Sibley, she wrote about Medusa for Divine Wounds. And myself, I wrote about a Welsh goddess, Arianrhod, and the narcissistic wound, you know, the narcissistic abuse. And I put on the table how she was act, you know, she suffered narcissistic abuse, Arianrhod, you know, in the myths and and everything. So, I put that on the table. I put the shadow of the myth, yes, of the myths, you know, I put that shadow on the table for people to to be able to mirror that wound.

Laylla: That's very powerful because I think if we can recognize that these all-powerful deities, these goddesses that we revere and that we honor, if they have wounds that are similar to ours, and yet they are still goddess, they are still powerful, then we can be too.

Guest: Yeah. Absolutely. That's the whole point about the book. There is also another author, Lindsay River, and I actually I asked her to to bring this story to the book because she shares the story about how Inanna was actually raped and how she she searches for for the rapist, like, and, you know, and it's, it's a really hard, harsh story. And she is powerful, Inanna, okay? And actually, there is a, because I also, this year I was speaking in the, in the, in the Goddess Conference in Glastonbury. And I was running a workshop because I have been working with Inanna also for, you know, for some time, I would say. And it was one of the things that always pisses me off, that a lot of people knows the story of the descent of Inanna, but they have, they have not kind of explore why does she goes, how does this goddess ends up going to the underworld. And the thing about what strikes me from the myths is that actually, when she gets raped, okay? When, you know, when she suffer this sexual abuse, and maybe you should put a content warning.

Laylla: I will. I will.

Ness: She is just back from heavens, from taking the powers from her dad, okay? So, she's back from heaven, she has the symbols of the powers from heaven, so she is very powerful at that point already. And then she lies under this tree because she's exhausted from the work in heaven trying to get the powers, you know, she is tired. She, she goes into deep sleep under this tree, and this guy, this gardener, sees her, sees the goddess sleeping in, in, you know, in a deep sleep, and abuse her when she's already like super powerful, okay? So, yeah, goddesses also suffered. They carry deep wounds. And yet, they are goddesses, the resilience and power and will to continue and become more strong, even, you know, after, you know, it's, it's a beautiful mirror for a lot of women that have suffer abuse. Like for me, it was actually Ariadne that picked me up and kind of said, "I know exactly what you're going through." And then is when I actually surrender to the story and, and went deeper. And she just put it on the table for me, and I was like, "Wow." You know, she was my mirror at that point. And, and she helped me, and actually this, this anthology, Divine Wounds, it's happened because, because of her.

Laylla: That's beautiful.

Ness: It was my gift to her. It was like, no, I try, I actually tried to submit my first article, you know, my first essay about abuse and Ariadne to another anthology, and they said, "No, because it's a bit too dark. Everything else is a bit nicer."

Laylla: Right.

Ness: And I felt so, uh, you know, so upset. I was thinking, so you're not taking this piece because the rest of the essays are like glitter, but we need, we need to read this as well, you know?

Laylla: We need the shadow, too.

Ness: We need the shadow. We need to look at the mirror of this wound. I was like, "No, I'm going to honor that part of the story. I'm going to honor Ariadne by putting an anthology myself together for her." So, that's December. And as I said, there are other amazing authors that really open the wounds, you know?

Laylla: Mm.

Ness: And, and put them on the table, and how, you know, they've been working with different goddesses to connect with, you know, with, with, and find healing, you know? That's the whole point.

Laylla: And this is a good time of year, definitely, to do that. Well, thank you for sharing that. I'm definitely going to be looking for that. I, you said that's coming from Moon Books?

Ness: Yeah, Moon Books, like the beginning of December, it's going to be out.

Laylla: We will put links to all of that. So, thank you so much, Ness, for joining us and for sharing all of your wisdom and all of this information. I, you've given me so much to think about and so much to look forward to. I very much appreciate your time here. Thank you so much.

Chelle: Absolutely, Ness. Thank you so much.

Ness: Thank you.

Laylla: And if you would, now you mentioned that you're going to be traveling, you're going to be teaching coming up here in the future. Is there anything that people might be looking forward to or that they might be able to sign up for?

Ness: I'm going to be traveling to Iceland in, in just a couple of weeks. I'm going to be in the Netherlands, and I'm going to be in Ireland, as well. Hopefully, at some point, I might be back with you, uh, in the States. Um...

Laylla: We would love that.

Chelle: Yay.

Ness: I have my Patreons, you know, I have the Invisible Sandals where I share the, the sea priestess, sea priestess training. I share the Priestess of Alba for people that is connected to Scotland, so they can work with the Scottish goddesses, you know?

Laylla: Mm.

Ness: And deities. Uh, I also have my Shamanic Patreon, the Clan of the Bone Woman, Clan de la Huesera. So, yeah, I always do things online, as well.

Laylla: Awesome. Well, we will put links to all of that for you.

Ness: Thank you. Thank you so much for having me.

Laylla: Thank you for being here. So, we really appreciate it.

Chelle: Thank you for spending the time with us.

Ness: Thank you so much.

Chelle: So, if you have any problems, if you need to talk to someone, if you need to reach out, Laylla's going to put in the show notes some phone numbers, some websites to get you connected with people. Reach out to a friend, reach out to a family member, call a number, reach out to a chat line. We'll put some links in the show notes for you. Thank you so much for listening to this episode of Back on the Broomstick, and a huge thank you to Ness Bosch. We really appreciate your time here. So, we will see you next week for Back on the Broomstick. In the meantime, be wise, be wicked...

Laylla: ...and keep it witchy.
