Laylla: Welcome to Back on the Broomstick, a modern witches' spoken word grimoire, where two witchy friends from way back are reconnecting to their pagan roots after a long period of mundanity. We're rewalking the path of the wise and trying out all the latest spells, rituals, and magical theory in today's witchcraft and pagan practices. So grab your wand and your incense, your cauldron and your crystals, and join us as we get back on the broomstick.

Laylla: Hi, and welcome to Back on the Broomstick. I'm Laylla, and this episode we're going to focus on the magic of numbers, numerology. Where did it come from? Is it too much math for Chelle? And do you have to know how to use the Pythagorean theorem in order to use math and numbers in your magic?

Chelle: And I'm Chelle, and I am not a mathy person, so this is going to be a challenge for me. But, I am a Taylor Swift fan. I'm a Swiftie. I don't care. I will admit it. I will die on the sword. And Taylor Swift's into numerology, so I thought let's talk numerology.

Laylla: Her favorite number is the same as my favorite number.

Chelle: 13!

Laylla: That's right. So let's dive right into what is numerology? Where did it come from?

Chelle: Let's work our way from the history, um, because we want folks to have the background, not just, "Oh, I want to find my numbers," but why are you finding your numbers?

Laylla: Why do we even like numbers? Chelle doesn't even like math.

Chelle: I don't like numbers. I don't.

Laylla: She does though, because honestly, whenever you do a chant in circle, how many times do you say it?

Chelle: Three times, but that ain't math.

Laylla: No, but it is numbers. And if you're going to pick a number to do something on, you know, you're going to pick a three, a five, a seven, or a nine, am I right?

Chelle: Only because I have a reason for picking certain numbers and they just happen to be in that grouping of numbers, but it's not because they're odd.

Laylla: Exactly. So you don't have to be a math person in order to like numbers. We say third time's the charm. We say, um, seven is a lucky number, or some people think 13 is an unlucky number.

Chelle: And some people think what you put out gets sent back to you three times.

Laylla: That's right. Because numbers are so entwined with our history, with the universe, and and with life itself, we are fascinated with them, and we have been since time began. We don't really know who invented numbers because we all count, everybody counts, and and numbers were kind of invented in India and within Islam and the Arab countries. So kind of a lot of different places developed the actual concept of numbers at the same time.

Chelle: When did we start to care about sequences and things that came up?

Laylla: Right from the beginning, people have always thought that that was magical, and they started to use numbers to keep track of the stars and the seasons, and they thought these were mystical events. And so numbers themselves had divine properties. In Babylon and ancient Egypt, they tracked the moon and the stars, and they used numbers to create the pyramids, right? So all these mystical, magical things. And about 600 BCE in Greece, we've got the philosopher Pythagoras. Now, we've heard of the Pythagorean theorem, right? A squared plus B squared equals C squared. And this is the guy that came up with that. But he came up with that not because he wanted to torture middle school students.

Chelle: No, he did.

Laylla: Yeah, okay, he probably did. But also because he felt that numbers were tied to the cosmos, to the cycles of the universe, to the gods themselves. And so he linked them to music and to the truth of your spirit, to your soul. I mean, this guy thought numbers were in everything, and and I kind of believe that, too.

Chelle: You know, there always really has been a a mystical and divine relationship between numbers and events. The only reason I'm saying this is because we've said it before on air. I turned 50 this year. You know, I know people are like, "Oh, it's just a number, it's just a birthday, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah." But like, 50. For me not liking math and not being a numbers person, 50. You know, and I did the same thing when I was 25. I was like, "Oh, I'm 25." How many people go drinking when they're 21? How many people get a license at 16? You know, it's everything I feel like, as much as I am not a numbers and math person, I have come to realize doing research for this episode that I feel like everything I do revolves around numbers. Even, you know, and you taught me this trick, you know, I've been traveling the last couple of weeks and various grocery stores in various towns in various states, I can even get a discount with Jenny.

Laylla: Jenny's number.

Chelle: Put in your local area code and 867-5309 and you're getting that store discount.

Laylla: All right, hold on. We have to explain this to people because this is a wonderful witchy tip. So, side note, we're going to go on a little tangent, folks. It still has to do with numbers. So a couple of years ago, we went down to Secret Space and we went into a grocery store and realized that in order to get the very good deal on some groceries we were going to get for our weekend at the festival, you had to have a store loyalty card.

Chelle: Who has a store loyal loyalty card in Baltimore? Not these two girls.

Laylla: Not us. So I taught Chelle that you take from the old song Jenny, you would take Jenny's number, 867-5309, what Gen Xer doesn't know that number?

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: And you add the local area code to it. And there's a good chance that someone in that area has signed up that number for the loyalty card.

Chelle: I didn't believe you. So here I am at the damn checkout googling, "What's the area code for Baltimore, Maryland?" So we type it in. Your card has been accepted. I'm like, "No way." So then I go somewhere else without you and I'm like, "Okay, Laylla's full of it. This was a fluke. Big city." I type it in. Sure as sugar, I got the club discount. It's real.

Laylla: It is. So there you go. There's your mundane magical number trick. If you need a loyalty card, use Jenny's phone number plus the local area code.

Chelle: If you're not old enough to know Jenny's number, we are not judging you. Google it.

Laylla: It's a it's a cute song. But it'll stay in your head. Don't listen to it. Anyway, back to our regularly scheduled program. So, lots of cultures and places have come up with numbers because they are so magical, because they are in everything. Everything in our life revolves around numbers. And in China, the I Ching, it's an ancient divination system that relies on numbers. Numbers there were seen as reflections of cosmic balance. And in the Kabbalah, which is a huge one, especially today, a lot of Tarot, a lot of esoteric practices today use the ancient Kabbalah, which is a numerical system that assigns numbers to letters in the Hebrew alphabet. Now, this is different. A little later in the episode, we're going to talk about how to find like your soul number and your name number and things like that. And the way we're going to use that by assigning numbers to letters is not what I'm talking about here. The one we'll talk about later is the Pythagorean system. So we've got the Kabbalistic and Pythagorean ways of looking at numbers and their magical relationship to letters and meanings. But the Kabbalah, the letters double as numbers, so words and names can have numerical values, and it's a very magical system. And that's why you'll see a lot of this in the Golden Dawn. You'll see Aleister Crowley used a lot of the Kabbalah.

Chelle: But if you can, can you explain to me, and actually, I had this conversation with my boss this evening. "Hey, buddy." Why are the numbers in the numerology system not the same as Kabbalah and and all the other systems? Why why can't one mean the same damn thing in everything? Do you know?

Laylla: Because the the Hebrew alphabet is different than our alphabet.

Chelle: It's literally that simple?

Laylla: Literally that simple. Uh, like each Major Arcana card, like aligns with a Hebrew letter. So like the Fool is Aleph, which is the number one, right? So it's kind of the same. Aleph, the Hebrew letter Aleph is one, which corresponds to the Fool card.

Chelle: But the Fool is zero.

Laylla: Let me explain. There's technically no symbol for zero in Kabbalah. There is the concept of nothing, but no symbol for it. So in the Kabbalah, the letter Aleph or the number one is the beginning. It's the divine spark that starts everything, right? So in that way, it matches the energy of the Fool, even though the Fool is numbered zero in Tarot, magically it's the one, the first card, or Aleph in Kabbalah.

Chelle: Okay. Okay. Is zero a number in numerology?

Laylla: It is. It is, but zero came later. So zero existing as a number is a little bit esoteric. Uh, the idea has always been around, you know, the concept of nothingness. But other than placeholder symbols occasionally or maybe a glyph to represent the idea that there's nothing here, there was no number symbol until Indian mathematicians first did it and then later Arab mathematicians added it in. But that was like in the fifth century BCE, I think. I'd have to double check.

Chelle: Prior to the 19th century, numerology was actually called, and y'all know I'm bad at pronunciations, so forgive me. Before the 20th century, numerology was referred to as arithm- arithmancy, which sounds super mathy. It's basically arithmetic stuck with the mancy. So I think that maybe that could have been when some changes were made. You know, when when spiritualism came about and and when all that stuff started ramping up in the late 1800s is probably, I'm guessing, when it went from arithmancy arithmancy to numerology.

Laylla: Yeah, a lot of the spiritualists at that time, uh, there was a couple of women in particular that used numerology and the Kabbalah and ideas like that in spirituality, and so they kind of brought them together. And you're exactly right. That's when it started to get into Christianity, when they started to have a lot of interest in numbers and in magical numbers and mystical numbers happened at about that same time. But I would say that our modern idea and our modern witchy fascination with numbers came directly from Thelema, the Golden Dawn, Aleister Crowley, and the Wiccan ideas that came later. Like the number three being sacred. It's part of the Triple Goddess, the Triple God, triple phases of the moon, which is a little simplistic. But, you know, so we have these ideas, and that's where that kind of came from.

Chelle: And also, for me, when I think of the three, I also think of the sun, the moon, and the stars.

Laylla: So that's the history. But in modern times, I would say that I was never told, "This is numerology," but everyone always told me that the numbers three, five, and nine had a lot of spirituality, had a lot of magical associations.

Chelle: I I remember as a child also being told that 7, 13, and 11 were bad luck. Don't know why, but apparently 7, 11, and 13, according to my grandma, no good. That could have been, you know, a a folk superstition. But there are people that have numbers that, whether it's for them or or what have you, that they feel are not good numbers in their life.

Laylla: Yeah, I know that seven, that would that's one I've heard a lot as well. Like my grandmother would talk about like the seventh son of the seventh son, or seven degrees of initiation, right?

Chelle: Seven degrees of separation from Kevin Bacon.

Laylla: Seven's considered to be mystical in a lot of systems. And part of that is because it's a prime number. A lot of these magical numbers are odd numbers, 3, 5, 7, 9. And seven is one of them. It's only divisible by itself and one. You know, mathematically, it's just a little bit weird, so it doesn't really fit. And so that gives it kind of the air of it's different, it's special, it's magical.

Chelle: Everything mathematically is weird.

Laylla: There you go. That's true, too. No, they're all very neat. Math is very neat and precise, and that's one of the things I like about it. But, you know, there's seven planets, seven days of the week, seven chakras in the body. Seven's like the spiritual quest number. It's the seeker's number. Seven has has a lot of folklore tied to it because of that. 13, I know, is like the Friday the 13th, isn't that one the Knights Templar? The Friday the 13th, the Knights Templar were betrayed, right? So that kind of started that, supposedly. But yeah, so there's a lot of connotations that people have with numbers, and some can be very personal.

Chelle: I tend to gravitate to my birthday numbers if I am going to do like Mega or Powerball. You know, I always use like my birthday, my kids' birthdays, you know, an anniversary date. But that's how people do things like that. You know, how many people use theirs or their children's birthday, or use numbers as part of their passwords? Everything is just so number associated and you don't realize it. And I guess I didn't realize it until all of this. And when I started to look at some of the the numerology meanings for the numbers, first my mind had a hard time because I'm used to numbers in Tarot mean this, and, you know, if you get the four card, it means that, you know. So it took a minute to wrap my head around it, but I almost kind of like it now, dare I say. And if you tell me to start doing math and journaling, I am going to jump through this Zoom screen and get you.

Laylla: I'm not. I'm just going to, again, point out that the number meanings for each system aren't very much different from each other. The core meanings are fairly consistent, although I would say that Kabbalah is most often the outlier as far as meanings go. Um, you brought up four, and that's stability and structure in both Tarot and Pythagorean systems. But it's more like expansion in Kabbalah, so similar but not really. Um, so sometimes the connections between systems are a stretch. But like one is the beginning no matter what system you look at. Like most things, you should find the system that makes sense to you and works best with your particular magical brain.

Chelle: All right. So I want to jump in real quick to what everybody's thinking in their mind. "What are my numbers and what do they mean? How do I get my numbers? Which numbers do I work on? Add, subtract, multiply, divide?" First of all, there is no multiplication in numerology. Love it.

Laylla: By numerology, you're talking about a a specific thing, like finding your birth number, finding your name or something like that.

Chelle: Correct. So let's say, for example, I wanted to find my life path number. And your life path number kind of outlines your life, I guess, is the best way to put it.

Laylla: So this is to use numbers as a fortune-telling device by going by your your date of birth and your name and stuff.

Chelle: You know, these are like, "This says that you have a propensity to get walked all over." That doesn't mean you're going to let everybody walk all over you your whole life. That just means you got to be cognizant of it.

Laylla: So one part of numerology is using numbers to divine your future. Some people believe that there are numbers, kind of like astrology, at the time that you were born, the date that you were born, and then fate, like the name that you were given, all of these things can be reduced to a single-digit number, right? Or in some cases, a two-digit number. And that number can be a key, basically, to unlocking the secrets of your life, the secrets of who you are, what your personality's like, what your future's going to be like, much like astrology. I would say Tarot cards, but Tarot can change, and astrology tends to be set at the time of your birth. And this is also somewhat set.

Chelle: It's kind of set. Yeah, these are kind of set. I mean, you were born when you were born, you have the name you have. I mean, they're pretty set.

Laylla: All right. I don't know all of these, and you kind of shocked me at the beginning, and I'm super excited to learn how to do them. So.

Chelle: All right. So your life path, you are going to take your full birth date.

Laylla: Okay. Month, day, and full year, right?

Chelle: Full year.

Laylla: I'm got it. I'm writing it down. Okay.

Chelle: You add them all together left to right?

Laylla: You add them all together left to right. I added all of my numbers and came up with 31. Now, you have to get it down to a single number unless it's 11, 22, or 33, and we'll talk about that in a minute.

Laylla: Hold, please. I'm going to do some math.

Chelle: I did my month, my day, and my full year. I came up with 31, which is ironic because my birthday is on the 31st. And then I add the three and the one together because you have to reduce it down, and I get four. So my life path number is four.

Laylla: Okay. So this is the Pythagorean system. Basically reduces the numbers down to one single number, and each of those has a specific meaning. And that can be applied to all sorts of things. So, interestingly, Chelle, my life path number is also four.

Chelle: You know why? Because we're besties.

Laylla: That's why. So what does four mean?

Chelle: Okay. So, according to this particular method, which again, you know, different methods, different people have different, um, ideas of what the numbers mean. But according to this method, it means foundations, the salt of the earth.

Laylla: I have also seen it mean the builder, foundations, the person who stabilizes things, building legacy, work ethic. Fours, think of like a chair, you know, the four legs of something, you know. If you have four pillars, you're pretty stable, you're pretty solid.

Chelle: I also look at it as the steady hand within the chaos.

Laylla: Oh, yeah. Again, that stabilizer. I love that.

Chelle: So, the next one, this is your soul urge number, your core urges and desires.

Laylla: Whoa. Okay. I've never heard of this before. Okay. Soul urge. So this is what like you want? Is this what your soul is urging to do?

Chelle: Correct. Correct.

Laylla: Okay.

Chelle: For your soul urge, what you do is you use all of the vowels in your full birth name.

Laylla: Okay. So you take your birth name and you write down just the vowels in it.

Chelle: You're going to use your middle name, so first, middle, last.

Laylla: And then you take the Pythagorean system again. You write down the numbers one through nine in a line, and then underneath each, you start writing the alphabet. And when you get to nine, you go to the next line. So each number will have three or sometimes two letters associated with it. We'll show pictures of that, and we'll have links to that in the show notes so you can see it. But again, it basically assigns three letters roughly to each number one through nine. So A is one, E is five, I is nine, O is six, and U is three. So we'll put this, again, all in the show notes. But so you just take the vowels out of your full birth name, first, middle, last. And then what do you do, Chelle?

Chelle: I did all of my numbers, all of my vowels, and I came up with 11.

Laylla: I just did mine and it's 33.

Chelle: Okay, perfect. Perfect. So I'm going to stop right there and I'm going to interject something.

Laylla: Okay.

Chelle: Now, with the life path, remember I told you if you have a double digit, you add them together?

Laylla: Yes.

Chelle: You do not do that with 11, 22, and 33, and here is why.

Laylla: Oh, okay.

Chelle: 11, 22, and 33 are considered a master number. And it says that they possess intensified vibrations and have a more significant spiritual purpose. For me, 11 is the spiritual messenger or the illuminator. What'd you say yours was, 33?

Laylla: 33.

Chelle: That one is the master teacher, um, considered the most potent, and it actually amplifies the energies of both 11 and 22 as well.

Laylla: No wonder we're besties. All right. Okay.

Chelle: 33 is also the number of divine love, spiritual guidance, and profound compassionate service to humanity. Dude, that's like you in a nutshell.

Laylla: Thank you, I think.

Chelle: What mine means is 11 um is the number known for heightened intuition, spiritual insight, deep connection to the unseen, and represents the bridge between the spiritual and the material. I feel that. I feel that. The next one I want to mention is going to be your birth number. That is just your day. Just your day. So, I was born on the 31st. I have to add three and one. My birth My birth number is four, again.

Laylla: Ah, so your life path number is your full birthday, month, day, year, and your birth number is just the day you were born.

Chelle: Only the day. If you were born from the 1st through the 9th, keep your number. If you were born from the the 10th to the 31st, you need to add your two numbers together.

Laylla: What if they're born on the 29th and they have an 11? Do they keep adding and they go to two?

Chelle: If they were born on the 29th, they would add it to 11, and that's their number. If they were born on the 11th, that's their number. If they were born on the 22nd, that's their number, cuz it's a master number.

Laylla: What numbers do you add down to one, and what numbers do you not add down to one?

Chelle: You do not add down to one 11, 22, or 33.

Laylla: Ever. Everything else you do.

Chelle: Correct.

Laylla: So, in the Pythagorean system, it's one through nine unless it's 11, 22, or 33.

Chelle: Correct.

Laylla: Okay. All right. I got you.

Chelle: So, I'm one.

Laylla: You're one, and I'm four.

Chelle: Okay.

Laylla: And according to that, one means beginnings or primal force. You are a primal force.

Chelle: Sometimes.

Laylla: Then, you have your personality number.

Laylla: Oh, this is one I know. The personality number and soul urge number are like two parts of a whole thing, right? The soul urge is the vowels of your birth name, and the personality number is all the consonants of your name and add them together. So, the two of those kind of give you a whole picture.

Chelle: So, you have to go back to your chart where you have the one through nine, and you you have the the alphabet associated to each number, and you literally, and I have the longest damn name. So, when I add mine up, I get 13, and so I have to add the three and the one right back to four.

Laylla: My personality number is 11. When we were talking earlier, you said 11 here means visionary, highly psychic and intuitive, as well as a healer and an old soul.

Chelle: Correct.

Laylla: So, another one is your destiny number. And to do that, you add up the Pythagorean number for all the letters of your birth name. So, your birth date gives you your life path number, the road of fate that you'll walk in your life, and your destiny number, which is created from your birth name, tells you how you'll walk that path and with what personality. And the idea here is that nothing's random. The date of your birth is fixed, and it tells you who you are, a lot like astrology does. Your name, though, even if it seems like it's random, is more like a spell that's cast on you, either with intention, you know, chosen for its numerology, or usually without. But unlike your date of birth, your name is changeable. I like to think of your birth name as like your soul's original spell, as like the original spell that was put on your fate. But later in your life, you might have a nickname, or you might choose a new name or give yourself a new name or a magical name. And by choosing that new name, I feel like you are giving yourself a new spell, a a new destiny, maybe. And it's a vibration that you are choosing. It's a destiny of your choice. Uh, married names, titles, they kind of add into that as well. It I feel that it does kind of change how you're walking that path. Might not change your destiny, but it changes how you walk the path.

Chelle: I have a lot of foundations in the salt of the earth in my life, I feel.

Laylla: There you go.

Chelle: Two more numerology calculations you can do. There's one called the universal year number. And the universal year number is just adding the numbers of that year. So, you know, 2025 equals nine. So, this year, our universal year number is nine. If I flip back to my little chart here and go to nine, nine is wisdom. So, I think this is a year we as a population need to work on gaining wisdom. I didn't figure out 2026 yet. That would be 10, so that would be one. So, next year would actually be beginnings. Kind of sounds appropriate. So, yeah, universal year number, you're just adding the numbers of the current year. Now, this one I really found fun, your attitude number, the month and day of your date of birth. Now, people send me birthday cards, so they know my birth date. So, I did 05/31, and I got nine. So, mine's three. My attitude number is wisdom.

Laylla: Nice. What's three?

Chelle: Three, February 1st, 2-1. Creativity.

Laylla: Mm, very nice. Very nice.

Chelle: Again, totally you.

Laylla: What's this one overarching? What's this one in control of?

Chelle: Attitude.

Laylla: Oh, your attitude. Okay. Very interesting.

Chelle: Maybe for wisdom, mine really means I should think before I speak.

Laylla: Or maybe it just means you're very wise. So, the point here is you can find all these numbers. You can use your name. You can use your birth name. You can use your chosen name, and you can find what this means according to a system. Now, here's the fun thing.

Chelle: What?

Laylla: Just like anything, there are accepted meanings. There are traditional meanings of numbers, then there's different system meanings. There's the I Ching. There's the Kabbalah. There's the Pythagorean system. You're going to find different people ascribe different meanings to different numbers. Maybe your birth number means something entirely different than the Kabbalah says it does. That's okay.

Chelle: And some numerologists, not all, I found a couple of sources that also have what's called power numbers. So, remember we talked about master numbers, 11, 22, 33? Some folks go by power numbers that are 44, 55, 66, 77, 88, and 99. The theory is the consecutiveness, you know, 1-1, 2-2, 3-3, 4-4, 5-5, 6-6. So, they're saying 44 on are considered high power numbers. I think you would only get those types of numbers if you were doing like a destiny one or or something like that where you're adding like, you know, like I said, mine came to 94.

Laylla: Maybe you start adding your name and your lover's name to see what your destiny is together.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: Numbers are symbols, basically. That's all a number is, is a symbol. It is a symbol. It's a sigil that we have given to an idea. Four shows up a lot around you. We've talked about fours being stability, like a chair. Eights look like an infinity symbol, so it kind of follows that. 33, we like threes and threes and nines. That's that's a very round, magical, mother number. So, you start to look at them more as symbols and sigils rather than numbers. And so, when you start to repeat them and you see them repeated over and over again, you see 111 or 11:11 or 333, that's because our brains like patterns, and we find power in that pattern. Whenever you repeat something, it gives it more power. And also, our brains like patterns, so they latch onto them. They're going to notice them more. And so, that again gives it more power.

Chelle: Well, that brings me to something I just want to also briefly mention. Let me take you back to the '90s. Remember the '90s?

Laylla: I do.

Chelle: So, back in the 1990s, a new numerology thing kind of came about and has gained traction ever since. And that's angel numbers. And angel numbers, again, started in the 1990s, essentially. But what they are is three consecutive numbers, you know, 111, 222, 333, 444. Why they're called angel numbers, I still don't know, not going to lie.

Laylla: Well, you mentioned the '90s. So, back in the '80s, there was the satanic panic, and and there was definitely a surge towards fluffy things. People liked angels. They liked the idea of purity and goodness. And so, the idea of triple something, I think. Christianity likes their 666 and their 777. They like their triples. So, I think anytime you would see numbers in triplicate, people kind of assigned that to a Christian angel thing.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: Basically, what angel numbers are is repeating or patterned number sequences like 111, 222, etcetera. And people interpret those as spiritual messages, which I think they are. They're called angel numbers because the idea is that it comes from the angels, but it can really be the universe, your spirit guides, maybe your higher consciousness using numbers as a simple universal language to send you information. Our brains love patterns. So, seeing the same thing over and over again is a really good way to get the attention of your subconscious and to get you to pay attention to the message. Now, people like repetition, and we notice that. And sometimes it is a sign, and sometimes it's the Baader-Meinhof phenomenon. We've talked about that before. It's the blue car effect. It's when you have an idea in your head, and then suddenly you start seeing it everywhere.

Chelle: Everywhere.

Laylla: Right. So, it's frequency bias, basically. The frequency of that has not increased. Your noticing it has increased. And that's what that is. That doesn't mean that it's not magical. If your brain has an increased awareness of something, there's probably a reason why. If you keep noticing 555 on the clock, what what does five mean in the Pythagorean system?

Chelle: Change, a dynamic force.

Laylla: Right. So, if you keep seeing 555, maybe that's your higher mind trying to tell you that it's time for a change. You know, there could be a reason for that. So, just because there's a scientific reason why you keep seeing it, that confirmation bias, doesn't mean there's not a magical reason behind it as well.

Chelle: But, you know, I I I agree with all that, but I also want to say, and you and I kind of talked about this a little bit before we started recording, there are numbers that come up in people's lives that don't translate out to that definition, that grouping of definitions. And an example of that is, I was telling you earlier tonight, I have a four-digit number that I always see. I see it on clocks. I have seen it on billboards. I'll be driving, see it on a license plate. And that particular four-digit number happens to be associated with my childhood address. So, because of that number, I wouldn't break it down to the the one-digit thing because that particular number as is has meaning to me. But because it only has meaning to me, I'm the only one who can figure out what it means.

Laylla: Yeah, but seeing number patterns is not the same as numerology formulas. There's no reducing these to a single digit. Seeing repeated number patterns are essentially messages. They're information that your higher self, your guides, your deities, maybe the universe is trying to give you. And because they're messages, they're highly personal to each individual. That's why you keep seeing your birthday or your or your childhood address. And that's why context is absolutely key when it comes to interpreting these. Numbers are just like any other symbol or sigil. They are going to have their archetypal meaning. They're going to have the meanings that a lot of people over history keep over and over giving to it. Again, four being foundational because of a chair. It's very simple to grasp those similar meanings. But, when you see a repeated number, you have to ask yourself a lot of questions, like Chelle did. She sees this number and knows, "Oh, wow, that's the same number as my childhood home." That has a lot of symbolism to me. So, she immediately knew what that was. If you don't, you have to think, "Well, what was I thinking of when I saw it? What does it remind me of? When I say this number, what's my immediate feeling?" So, you're going to journal that stuff, haha. You're going to write down when you saw it.

Chelle: You couldn't help yourself, cuz you couldn't get through one episode without saying freaking journaling.

Laylla: Exactly. So, you want to look for the pattern. What's the pattern here? Is it always every day at 3:33? What are you doing at that time of day? What are you thinking? What's associated with it? So, magically, that's how you're going to use this Baader-Meinhof principle to help your magical witchy life.

Chelle: But I I I think that it is best to kind of feel out what each number might mean to you. When I think of Tarot, as the Major Arcana goes up, it's kind of a, "You're at the beginning, and you're moving up the ladder." So, you know, if my number's four, got a lot of fours, I haven't made it to the end yet, you know. I keep working, keep chugging, because I kind of look at it as a progression. But, I must at least once a week see my birthday. You know, I actually joked to my sweet love, we'll be doing something, and I'll just happen to look at the clock, and I'll be like, "Oh, it's birthday time." Only I can figure out why I always see my birthday time. You know, so some of this, you just got to, the books aren't going to tell you, the internet isn't going to tell you, you and I aren't going to tell them. Sometimes you just got to think, "What does this number mean to me, and what do I glean when I meditate on this number, when I think of this number?" You know, am I looking at nine as wrapping things up, closure? This time of year is a good nine time of year, you know. We're getting to that point where we're getting ready to kind of burst into a new season. I say that like it's almost spring. I'm hoping here.

Laylla: It is spring in the Southern Hemisphere, you lucky dogs.

Chelle: We love you guys, by the way. You warm people as we're freezing. But, what five means to me might be a little different because I was born in May, you know, five is my birth month. So, that has a different meaning than maybe whatever a book says, you know. So, you got to really kind of put, as anything else, put your own intuition and your own thoughts and and and feelings into, "What do these numbers mean to you?" You know, I had a conversation at my witchy store job tonight, and I was saying that we were going to talk about numerology. And, you know, we got into this whole conversation about there's so many different systems with so many different meanings. Go with your gut. What does four mean to you? What does four mean to me? You got an eight. What does eight mean to you? You know, are you almost done with with this chapter, ready to start anew? These things are very personal. Astrology, kind of cut and dry. Tarot, kind of cut and dry. I feel that numerology isn't as cut and dry.

Laylla: And I disagree. I think it is very cut and dry. I think there is wiggle room, just as with any symbol-based divination system, you do have to add your own personal meanings to them. But I think numbers are numbers. Four plus four always equals eight. Numbers are precise. It's part of their very nature. So, I believe that their magical meanings also tend to be precise. There's room for personal interpretation, just as there is in everything.

Chelle: The meaning of the numbers.

Laylla: Yeah, I agree. The meaning has to fit with the witch. Like, 33 33 might mean something totally different to you than it does to me, and I get that. But, this is just going to be one of the things we disagree just a little bit on. I think the numbers have their own power. They have their own magic because three things is always three things. And I think that translates over into the magical world as well. So, yes, I agree with you. You should write down your own personal meanings, but I do think that there's going to be these universal meanings that are going to also come through at the same time along with your personal meanings and your personal feelings.

Chelle: I hear you. I hear you.

Laylla: I just don't think that you could take a four and give it a personal meaning that has no connection whatsoever to its inherent meaning. I feel that it will always have some qualities that are part of what the number four is in the mundane world. There's just too much foundational about four for you to say it it always just means dreams. I don't know. I just think that the the essence of the number, the soul of the number, is always going to magically come through in some way, even if it has its own connotations for each individual person.

Chelle: I I hear that. But, what if four to me means almost like getting to an evaluation period? You know, you're looking at it one through nine, you know, four, five-ish is kind of halfway. What if I look at four as kind of a a middle ground, let me reassess what I've done?

Laylla: No, that's exactly what it is because that's what that that's inherent in the number. That's what I'm saying is is your personal meaning still matches what the number inherently is.

Chelle: But, how, I don't feel like that's stability. I don't know.

Laylla: Okay. Four means to you that evaluation period before you move ahead. And that is exactly stability. That's that same meaning. That's establishing a stable foundation on something before moving forward. So, honestly, we don't disagree that much. I mean, all I'm saying is that the numbers have power all their own that is not dimmed just because it also has a personal meaning.

Chelle: And this is what happens when you get me talking about mathy stuff.

Laylla: I think you were kind of saying the same thing. But, what can we do with numbers? So, numbers as sigils and meanings aside, like, what are some ways other than the formulas to figure out like your life path number, you know, what's another way that you could use a magical number in spellwork or in ritual?

Chelle: Well, you know, ritual, first thing that comes to mind, don't forget when you're casting your circle, you got four quarters to call. Again, back to four. I also see four as a balance, and I see it as a balance because of quarters, you know, earth, air, fire, water. You know, you got the the the up and down and the left and the right. You're you're making that that solid cross. Again, that stability, not that the quarters look like chair legs.

Laylla: But still stable.

Chelle: Right. They they they cross each other and create stability for each other, and without one, if you only had three, you screw that balance. So, I kind of look at it as like a stable, balancing thing.

Laylla: So, one thing you could do with that four is you could pick four crystals to carry with you to help you with that balance. You could pull four Tarot cards and position them in a balanced way and read them and see about that.

Chelle: In my particular coven, we, on occasion, not, you know, not that we're like out in the middle of huge open space, but we do we do a dance and we do it three times around. You know, you and I have done done rituals where, you know, you and I don't always like to conform to the norm. We've done some things nine times instead of three.

Laylla: Doing things nine times when it's in a small, intimate magical working where it's just you and me or just you and me and a few other witches doing some deep magical workings, doing something nine times, that's powerful. That's energy building. But man, when you're in a group of like 30, 50 people doing something nine times can be very difficult.

Chelle: Monotonous.

Laylla: That's right. So, yeah, it's it's also, you know, setting dependent. But yeah, maybe you need that maybe you need that ending cycle, right? Maybe you need that nine energy. Or maybe nine is something very personal to you. Maybe nine is the number of your maybe that's the day your love was born was on the ninth. And so you want to do something nine times to associate with their birth to maybe that's your tag lock with them or maybe maybe that numbers share some significance like an anniversary or something. And so you're bringing that number nine in in a very personal way to add that energy to your working.

Chelle: You know, again, you know, four, it always comes back to my damn life. You know, me and my sweet love, we we joke about how we're connected by four. And what we mean by that is I was born on the 31st, 3-1, and he was born on the 13th, 1-3. 1-3 is four, 3-1 is four, and when we add together the date that we met, it comes down to four.

Laylla: Ah, yes. The power of repeated numbers, patterns, not just repetitions, are also magical. And there is a numerical pattern that is so profound, it's found over and over again in nature. And that's the Fibonacci spiral. Going back to sacred space, we did the whole fool's journey on the on the spiral, walking the Fibonacci spiral meditation. The Fibonacci spiral is a very simple mathematical equation where each number is the sum of the two numbers before it. 1 + 1 is 2. 2 + 1 is 3. 3 + 2 is 5, and you keep going, and that number keeps going around. And if you plot those numbers, it creates a spiral. And the fun thing about the Fibonacci spiral is you will find this ratio, this spiral, in nature over and over and over again. It's found in the curve of a seashell, the spiral of a galaxy, the curl of a wave, the roundness of your baby's cheek. I mean, it's everywhere. This number makes up life itself. It makes up the whole world. You know, numbers are inherently part of everything that you see, and these patterns are part of that. So, patterns like you said, like the 3-1 and the 1-3, you know, that mirrors each other, and that can mean something, too. Seeing these repeated or mirrored, just like in any other kind of thing, mirror magic has something. You guys are two halves of a whole or or reflecting each other. You balance each other. You can bring all sorts of meaning to that, as well.

Chelle: Now, you asked me ways that I would use this numbers in in spell work and ritual, and you earlier mentioned music. You threw me into a drum circle when we were at Pagan Pride Day, which actually I appreciate.

Laylla: Yeah, honestly, thank you, Max and CNY Pagan Pride. That was magical.

Chelle: Music is all about numbers, and I I you know I was raised in a super magic music musical family, and I picked up that drum, and, you know, you listen to the the lead drummer so you can kind of tune in to to the beat that you got to find the one.

Laylla: And they even call it that. They call it finding the one.

Chelle: Oh, I found the one real quick. But you're going to laugh when I say this. I was doing it in eights. They played a tune for a little while that you and I are very familiar with, and I remember it because it's eight beats. It is, you're going to laugh, "Kackylambey is the rhythm, Kackylambey is the rhythm." So I go by that eight. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 1 2 3 4 and that's how I keep the rhythm because I know it's eight beats, and I count the eight in my head. Eight beats, start over. Eight beats, start over.

Laylla: Exactly. Absolutely. And that's part of the reason why I think drumming for me can be so magical because I do like that counting. I do like that rhythm, and it gets everybody synced up. When you have a rhythm like that, when you have some steady beat, steady counting, or some steady chanting, it can help everyone get synced up and get into the same space. And when I jumped in and was drumming with Max and everyone from CNY Pagan Pride and you guys jumped in and were drumming, you could feel that energy flowing around these people, some of whom had never been to a pagan drum circle or any type of drum circle in their lives, and we all connected, and you could feel the energy of each other. And that's powerful magic right there.

Chelle: I found myself going back to my high school bandy days because, yes, I was a bandy. And that is how I used to do it reading sheet music. I would count the notes to keep track with the rest of the band.

Laylla: Yeah. Yeah, that's why playing music is is part of that number magic and and can add so many different layers to your spell work or ritual just by tapping a little rhythm on your legs. You know, again, find a number that matches with your intention, with what you're trying to draw in or direct out, and find a way to incorporate that number into your spell work. Add seven stones, add seven candles, tap out of seven count beat on your legs for the spell. There's so many ways you can do that.

Chelle: It's still mathy.

Laylla: It is, but it's fun. And you know you know, it's funny how how many times we use it without even thinking about it.

Chelle: And, you know, that's kind of what this whole process has brought to light to me because, you know me, you start talking math, and I run for the hills. But I'm like, wait, I always see these numbers. And, you know, like with the drumming, I counted out the drumming. You know, we always make sure we do the four quarters. You know, we do things in three. You know, I was like, I kind of use numerology and didn't even know it.

Laylla: Yeah. Yeah, we use it all the time. We might not be doing it in divination, although I will admit it's kind of fun to go through and see what your numbers are and kind of where your life path is going. We all like those divinations, right? That's definitely fun to do.

Chelle: Well, and, you know, speaking of divination, if you go back to older tarot that was based off of playing cards, you know, you had to know there wasn't no pictures. You had a card with a five of hearts on it. What's that mean?

Laylla: Yeah, the pip cards had no pictures until Pixie, Pamela Colman Smith, really illustrated them. So, yeah, that can definitely uh help strengthen your numerology, that's for sure. So, I think my brain is about full of math. How about you?

Chelle: If I have to put one more number in my head, it will explode.

Laylla: So, we've dived into how many things are the same with numbers, how many systems are different, and that personality and your own life can absolutely add a layer of meaning to each number and how you use them in your practice.

Chelle: Numbers are scary to me, but I I really encourage folks to even if you're not going to deep dive this, definitely go down the rabbit hole of numerology because it's interesting even if you only touch on it.

Laylla: And it's definitely a puzzle piece that can add a lot of layers and a lot of energy to your spell work and to your ritual work. Another layer, another step to to make things more powerful when you're trying to work your will. Thank you guys so much for listening to this episode of Back on the Broomstick. Don't forget to get your letters in to our PO Box if you want to enter our Season of the Witch giveaway. It has to be postmarked by October 1st, so you've got a little bit of time.

Chelle: Time's a ticking, people.

Laylla: Chelle is having a blast opening up the mailbox all the time.

Chelle: Oh my god, can I just say this? So, all the listeners know that I went out and spent like a week with you. So, you know, no one's checking the PO Box because I'm not here. I went to the PO Box after being away. So, I go to the box, and then I had to go to the counter because I had to pick some stuff up that was too big for the box. You know what the lady at the the post office said to me?

Laylla: What?

Chelle: "I'm really sorry, ma'am. I wish I had a bag for you." Because she knows I she knows I walk two blocks, and there was so much mail. And, guys, you don't even realize how happy you make Laylla and I with your your cards, your letters, your gifts, your postcards. Like, I literally go back to work and stop all of my work because that's not the priority at the moment, text Laylla, send pictures to Laylla, and I'm like, "Oh my god, we got all these letters!" Like, we are like giddy school kids. And as much as you guys love us, please know that we absolutely adore all of you equally as much.

Laylla: Thank you guys so much. We have so much fun spending time with you every week. And for coming out to Central New York Pagan Pride, we're going to have to do a solarium and talk about it because we met so many of you. We got so many hugs. Thank you all. Thank you for everything. Thanks for hanging out with us.

Chelle: And, you know, speaking of of meeting folks at Central New York Pagan Pride Day, if you got a selfie with us, post it in the fan discussion group. We'd love to see them.

Laylla: All right. We could talk about this forever, what we agree on, what we disagree on, all of the things. But we're going to get going and get working on next week's episode. So, we're going to go be witchy.

Chelle: And we're suggesting that all you witches out there, go check out your life number.

Laylla: Do a little math in honor of Chelle and Laylla and Back on the Broomstick.

Chelle: And then go journal it.

Laylla: There you go. All right. So, while you're doing your math, be wise, be wicked.

Chelle: And, guys, keep it witchy and be mathy.
