Chelle: Welcome to Back on the Broomstick, a modern witches' spoken word grimoire, where two witchy friends from way back are reconnecting to their pagan roots after a long period of mundanity.

Laylla: Where we're walking the path of the wise and trying out all the latest spells, rituals, and magical theory in today's witchcraft and pagan practices.

Chelle: So grab your wand and your incense, your cauldron and your crystals, and join us as we get back on the broomstick.

Laylla: Hi, and welcome to Back on the Broomstick. I'm Laylla, and on this episode, we're taking you down a spooky cemetery path. We were gifted an old Ouija board by a listener. Thank you, Vik. And these two witches decided to take it out for a spin. We're going to talk about our supernatural adventures in a well-known haunted cemetery. We'll also discuss cemetery etiquette, whether you're ghost hunting, gathering spell components, or developing a relationship with the permanent residents, as well as what you should and shouldn't do after leaving a place where spirits dwell.

Chelle: And I'm Chelle, and I would like to mention that if you are also a fan of our previous podcast, The Stone Witches Hour, we actually did an episode on this particular cemetery, and it's one of my favorites. And I just I'm so glad that we get a chance to go back here and tell a new story. So, Laylla, tell them where we're going.

Laylla: We're going to the Fallbrook Cemetery down in Tioga County, Pennsylvania, which actually isn't too terribly far away from my house. This is the second time that Chelle and I have gone ghost hunting in this cemetery. And let's just say that it didn't end exactly the way we wanted it to, but it was very interesting.

Chelle: Now, again, we did an episode on this on Stone Witches Hour. Definitely go back and check that out. But kind of a quick recap, I came across this cemetery back in, I don't know, 1994, 1995. And a mutual friend of Laylla's and mine actually went to college down there, and going to this cemetery was so spooky, it was a part of a hazing for a fraternity.

Laylla: Yeah, that's true. The local stories about this cemetery are numerous. Seems like anybody who was a teenager or young adult in the area at some time went to this abandoned cemetery because really creepy supernatural events seem to happen every single time someone goes there.

Chelle: Now, what the catch was for me was our mutual friend that took me to this place, you know, as Laylla, as you know, this person is not I don't want to say they're not a believer.

Laylla: He's very serious and science-y.

Chelle: Very Yeah, very serious and science-y and wouldn't otherwise be a believer, and said that this place made him a believer. So at that point, I was like, let's do this.

Laylla: Anybody that goes here pretty much has a spooky, supernatural experience. Fallbrook is a ghost town. It doesn't exist any longer. But back in the 1800s, a father and son duo, John and Duncan McGee, discovered coal, which is plentiful in Pennsylvania, right next to the Fallbrook Creek.

Chelle: Coal in Pennsylvania? No way.

Laylla: Right? Really. So they established a coal mining company there. They constructed a railroad next to it, like everybody did. This was going to Corning, New York, which is just over the border, and they transported coal up the railroad and the Erie Canal. So it became a very big town, and by 1862, there was 180 houses, a schoolhouse, boarding houses, shops, families, and of course, a cemetery. The population grew steadily, but unfortunately, the town had quite a few misfortunes, I guess. Around 1872, it was at its biggest, and people started dying of smallpox. There was a smallpox epidemic. There were several fires in the town. Eventually, the coal ran out, and the town was abandoned. The town got overgrown, the houses fell down, and only the cemetery remained pretty much. I don't believe there are even any buildings in the area left of the town.

Chelle: This whole area is now a part of the Tioga State Forest. This is state land owned by the government. It's not like it's private property.

Laylla: It's all overgrown, and this cemetery itself is also very, very overgrown. A lot of the stones are fallen down. They're from the mid to to late 1800s. There are a couple from 1900, and I believe the latest one is like 1932. But they are in disrepair, and the place is really spooky. So we're going to talk about cemetery etiquette, what you can do in a cemetery. We're going to talk about ghost hunting in a cemetery. We're going to have a special guest on who was with us when we went to the cemetery and what he experienced, both during and after. And we're also going to talk about a Ouija board that was gifted to us from a listener that we brought along to the cemetery. So, Chelle, why don't you tell us about your personal experience at this cemetery when you first went here with our mutual friend and what happened? Because they should go listen to The Stone Witches Hour episode, and I will link it in the show notes, but it's freaking creepy. So give them the short version of what happened to you.

Chelle: We're talking like 1994, 1995. My friend was actually still in college down in Mansfield. You know, one of those weekends, "Hey, you know, we did this thing, and they say it's haunted. You should come down." At first, I was like, "Yeah, everybody says that." But then I got this vibe that this was the real deal. And when you drive in, this is a place where you're kind of going down, I don't know, a mile or so on like a I don't want to say an abandoned dirt road, but an abandoned dirt road.

Laylla: Yeah, you're going deep into a state forest.

Chelle: You feel the vibe change, or at least I did. You know, maybe it's just me and being sensitive, but like you can feel that you're going into something.

Laylla: That's a common thing that people that go to the area mention, is as soon as you get close to the cemetery, it does have a vibe.

Chelle: And one thing I've noticed, you know, like I said, I've been there, I think, four times. Where you have to park, it reminds me of your house. It's almost like you're being watched. There's things in the woods watching you. But, you know, you walk up a path, you get there. But I think the most striking thing about when you first get there, the first time I went was at night, so it was even more, quote unquote, "freaky and scary." This cemetery is almost kind of shaped in a circle, for lack of a better word. Kind of like you're in the middle of the trees and the woods, and then there's an opening where the cemetery is, and that opening is kind of in a circle.

Laylla: Just off the dirt road is a small clearing that's almost like a primitive parking lot. It's not.

Chelle: Pull-off, almost.

Laylla: Yeah, it's like a little pull-off. And then just up the hill is the gate. You walk around the gate, and there's a long path through the woods, and then you literally come into a circular clearing with one guardian tree at the entrance and a big bush in the center, and there's graves everywhere, and a few even extend into the trees. But it does very much look like a circular clearing in the middle of the forest.

Chelle: But but what is striking about that, and I know you noticed this too, Laylla, the minute you get into that circular area, the wind stops, the birds stop, the noise stops.

Laylla: Crickets stop. There's no insect noises.

Chelle: But like there was wind in the woods when we were in the woods, but then you go you get into the It's almost like dead air. You know what I mean?

Laylla: Yeah, it is one of the anomalies of this area. Again, this is one of the things that people mention all the time. This is why college kids go there as a hazing, because it's one of those places that's very weird. So you walk into this circular clearing, and the noises of the woods and the natural noises of the fields fall away.

Chelle: Now, back then, it was a little more clear than it is nowadays. You know, we're talking 30 years ago. Some of the caskets are out of the ground. I remember walking and like tripping, and I thought I tripped over a rock, and I actually tripped over the corner of a casket. Now, remember, at the time, I was like, what, 18, 19 years old. I was freaked out. I literally tripped over someone's casket. But then you hear the kids crying. And I remember back then, it was almost overwhelming.

Laylla: You mean the ghostly kids, right?

Chelle: The ghostly kids, yeah. Because obviously, it was just like a group of three or four of us there. We didn't bring kids with us, but like you could hear it.

Laylla: Yeah, one of the stories is that because smallpox ran rampant through the town for two years, between roughly 1870 and 1872, a lot of people died, especially children. And so this cemetery is infamous for having a lot of children's gravestones, young children. And a lot of the gifts people leave will be toys and candy and things like that on the children's graves. The lore says that when you go there, you'll either hear children laughing in the distance and possibly sometimes singing, they might be singing like nursery rhymes, but more often you'll hear children crying.

Chelle: So to kind of fast-forward, we get scared, we do whatever, we run to the car. All the car doors were open, the lights were on, and there was a baby bonnet in the front seat that definitely was kind of a early 1900s type thing. No one was there. We all kind of stayed together as a group. It's not like someone, you know, went off and was playing a trick. I am not sure I've ever been so scared.

Laylla: And this is in the middle, literally miles into the middle of a state forest. There was no one else around that could have put that on there.

Chelle: Yeah, no.

Laylla: I love this part of the story. And when you and I went, I I believe we had one of these electrical anomalies happen as well. Another interesting thing that happens here, and people aren't sure if it's because of the cemetery or if the cemetery was placed here and it was already a strange place, but in this area, your battery will run out much more quickly than usual. Electronics die. They act weird. They pick up strange noise. They will suddenly have glitches. Flashlights will die.

Chelle: One time when I was there, we had a hard time getting the car started.

Laylla: Not being able to start the car is something that you will commonly see when people mention going to Fallbrook Cemetery. They'll say, "The car wouldn't start when we got back out." And it happens repeatedly enough that I was worried when we went if our car would start when we came back out. Because there's nowhere to run.

Chelle: There isn't.

Laylla: We did have an experience in that parking lot on the way out, but we'll talk about that.

Chelle: We'll get there. We'll get there. We'll get there.

Laylla: So, cemetery etiquette. Whatever cemetery you go to, you should always, when you enter, say hello, or you should ask permission. You should talk to the guardian of the cemetery. You should make an offering, or at least make an acknowledgment as you're walking in.

Chelle: Now, you make this sound so super formal, and I love you for it. But I really kind of sometimes just do the, "Hey. What's up?"

Laylla: Okay, it did sound very formal, and it can be, especially if you're trying to make a relationship with the spirits in that cemetery or with the guardian of that cemetery. You should be formal. But here,

Chelle: I was just visiting.

Laylla: There's a tree.

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: Is that tree would you say that that's where you made your kind of, "Hey," to the guardian? Is that tree when you first entered? Not the bush, but the tree.

Chelle: Yeah, because that tree kind of seemed like like the entry point.

Laylla: It did, right? Okay. So when you first walk in, you walk in a little ways, and there's a an older, gnarly tree kind of in the center of the entrance of this circle, sort of.

Chelle: But you're drawn to it like like a fly to freaking honey.

Laylla: 100%. Now, a guardian, a cemetery guardian, every cemetery has one.

Chelle: It was totally that tree.

Laylla: In this particular case, it's that tree, or the spirit is near that tree. And it's very easy to feel. Chelle and I both went immediately to that tree, and in my head, I said, "Hey, we're here. We're not planning on staying. Thank you so much for letting us be here." And just kind of a silent nod to the guardian of of this cemetery in my head.

Chelle: Mine was more like, "We're okay. Are you okay? Cuz we're okay. You're okay."

Laylla: But in this tree, someone had left a Polaroid picture, and all I could make out on it was an orb. I'm not sure what else was in the picture.

Chelle: You love your orbs.

Laylla: I do. Also, there was a blue bandana at the base of the tree as an offering. And this this cemetery is littered with offerings at the gravestones. This was the only tree that had offerings.

Chelle: It it very much definitely was a symbol, spiritual, man-made, I don't know, but it felt like you had to pay homage to it before you moved on.

Laylla: Agreed. Now, folklore says that when a cemetery or a graveyard was first created, the very first person buried in the cemetery, their soul would then be bound to look over all the souls that come into that cemetery. They become the guardian.

Chelle: No pressure.

Laylla: Right? And so to kind of counteract that pressure, sometimes they would bury an animal. They'd sacrifice an animal, and they'd bury it there to become the guardian. Or take the body of a a poor person or someone whose family couldn't complain, and they would bury them first.

Chelle: Resident number one.

Laylla: Right. So they would take somebody undesirable and bury them there first, or they'd sacrifice an animal to be the sacrificial soul to be the guardian. Other people believe that the strongest soul there becomes the guardian. There's a lot of different folklore around it. So you kind of have to check with your cemetery and see who you think might be the guardian. All I can say is, energetically, that tree

Chelle: Was a guardian.

Laylla: Is either the guardian, or the guardian's buried underneath it or right near it or has chosen it. Anyway, that tree, that's where you say hello to this cemetery, for sure. So bring an offering for the guardian. For us, I know we brought cannabis. I had a little bit of cornmeal left over from making labyrinths. So it's always a good idea to bring something small, some type of offering to the cemetery or to the guardian of the cemetery. Well, we brought some tools with us.

Chelle: Did.

Laylla: We did bring a old-fashioned tape recorder. Shout-out to your husband for still owning one. We brought tarot cards, obviously. We brought a Ouija board. Now, first of all, again, Vik, thank you. You gave us your creepy Ouija board, and we decided to fuck around and find out. So we brought it to Fallbrook with us.

Laylla: Huge shout-out to Vik. Thank you so much. Vik came up to us at the Central New York Pagan Pride, and she gave us a Ouija board.

Chelle: I remember that no one wanted to touch it, and her father demanded it get out of the house. And we have it.

Laylla: Vik says this particular Ouija board was in like an attic room of their house for a very long time. And none of the kids ever wanted to go in that room because they said that room was creepy.

Chelle: And didn't they say no one remembered how it got there?

Laylla: They didn't remember who brought it into the house or how it originally got there, just that it was there. And at some point, they know that the planchette to it disappeared. It had been there, and then it just wasn't. And no one used it, no one went in that room. She said it was like the planchette just fucked off, like the house just absorbed it, disappeared it, took it away, whatever. Now, at this point, her father just recently said he wanted that board full of spirits out of the house. But no one would go upstairs to get it. So he decided he wanted it out so badly, he stomped his ass up the stairs, got the Ouija board, gave it to her, and said, "Get it out of the house." And of course, she decided to give it to her favorite fuck around and find out aunties, us.

Chelle: Thank you. Cuz you know what? We're going to get to it in a minute, but it was a a wonderful experience. But yeah, so we walked around. We were trying to record various things on our phones. We set the cassette tape up in a certain area a couple different times, seeing if we could capture anything. But we all kind of had this vibe that we weren't alone, 110%. A couple of times, you know, we we split up. You were off one way, I was off another way. We were being watched by not people.

Laylla: And that is another common story. People will often talk about feeling like they're being watched, like there's people in the woods just a few trees in, watching them while they're in the cemetery.

Chelle: You know, and you got to remember, not not only was this a cemetery, an abandoned town. You know, they talk about like in Gettysburg that that some of these soldiers, you know, think they're they're still alive and still on the battlefield and still fighting the war. I sometimes have wondered when I've been at Fallbrook and having that sense of people in the woods, could there be people that died in the coal mines that don't know that they're dead and are just walking around their town?

Laylla: Could be. That was like a mile or so away from the cemetery, so yeah, they could be.

Chelle: I want to mention, you know, you you wanted to mention the tree in the front. What about the tree in the back?

Laylla: Okay, so there's three trees kind of in a row that are all interesting. There's the guardian tree when you first walk in. Then roughly in the center-ish, kind of off-center towards the front, is like a bush tree. And there are quite a few graves around this bush. A lot of graves around this bush. And then further back in the line on the back side of the circle is the white hanging tree.

Chelle: The front tree had kind of a guardian, "Welcome to my cemetery," vibe. That tree in the back had a vibe of, "Fuck you, I'm going to get you."

Laylla: It's the only white tree in the area, so it is very vivid, very stark, and very easy to see.

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: It also has one branch, a lower branch, that kind of comes out at a right angle for a while and then goes straight up.

Chelle: Almost like it was purposefully bent that way when it was growing.

Laylla: To be like a a hanging branch. So sometimes it's called the hanging tree. And it does have a weird vibe. And there are some graves near it, and it does have carvings in it. And that area is where our guest had a lot of concern about wild animals, I think.

Chelle: Yeah. Yeah.

Laylla: One of the many things that people hear in this area, again, they feel this strange sense of being watched. They start to get nervous and antsy and feel like there's something in the woods that's going to come get them. Some people will also talk about hearing what they call a banshee scream. And I don't think it's a banshee, and I have reasons, but go listen to The Stone Witches Hour, and I explain it all in that. But people hear some type of screaming, and there are a lot of people from Scotland that are buried here. People would come over from Scotland, and they worked here in the mines. So it is possible that they brought some of their folklore, which, you know, Appalachian region, it all kind of follows anyways. But yeah, so people feel a lot of unease here. And I'm pretty sure that that's what the other person that was with us felt as well.

Chelle: I would almost go so far to say extremely negative energy from that part of the cemetery, absolutely.

Laylla: The tape recorder that you mentioned, I set up in two different places. We first set it up near that bush that I mentioned that had a lot of gravestones around it, that was kind of roughly in the center-ish. We set it up near a young child's gravestone, set it to record, and then left it and went off in different parts of the cemetery to see what we could find. Then after, what would you say, like 20 minutes or so?

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: Turned it off, and then I put it up by the white hanging tree up at the other end of the cemetery. Interestingly, we did catch some EVPs on the tape. The first one sounded like a military drumming.

Chelle: I can think it in my head like that. (mimics drumming)

Laylla: Exactly. And then it didn't record that military beat in the other location. I'm having a hard time getting it from tape to MP3, but I'll I'm working on it to make it nice and clear. But I will put up what I think are some EVPs that say a couple different words, and we'll see what our listeners think. But it recorded the drumming in one area and not the other.

Chelle: Laylla, I do want to mention, you and I were unique in the fact that it does take a little bit to rattle us in this type of situation.

Laylla: True.

Chelle: The person that we had with us that we'll have chat in in a few minutes, maybe a little less so, but it it takes a little bit to rattle either you or I. And towards the end, I felt like there was something associated with that tree that was just pissed off. And not that it was pissed off at us, but you know how sometimes when you're the only one listening?

Laylla: Like you said, a lot of the negative energy was concentrated up in that area. And, you know, we were mostly around the sides and the center, asking questions, trying to see what we could find.

Chelle: I really did feel like a lot of the eyes on me were also coming from behind that tree. But I want to quick jump to how you felt, because sometimes you and I get a different vibe. How did you feel in that area and around the tree?

Laylla: When I first entered, I could definitely feel the energy of the guardian tree. That was one of the biggest places that I I felt activity. And and then once I got into the cemetery, when we first walked in, I kind of walked to the left of the guardian tree.

Chelle: And I went to the right, yeah.

Laylla: Mostly what I felt was that just outside in the woods, feeling of being watched was very, very strong. We did go in the evening as it was getting towards sunset. But I think that when we were doing the Ouija board...

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: ...that's when I started to feel, that's really when I started to feel some energy. And that's when I put my hood up, actually, on my hoodie because I was starting to feel a little vulnerable at that point. So that's when I put my hood up.

Chelle: Let me interject quick and say, in that beginning, when you immediately went off to the left and I immediately went off to the right, there was a grave kind of deep in the woods on the right in the front. The gravestone itself looked like a tree stump. When I was over there, maybe we're there 10 minutes, 15 minutes at that point, I already was hearing words and whispers and I knew there was something there. And you and I grew up in the woods, you know, we grew up in in a rural area. We know the difference between is that a deer, a black bear, or a ghostie? And this definitely was not an animal, but I I was getting that the minute I separated from people.

Laylla: It was when I moved the tape recorder, before we did the Ouija board, I moved the tape recorder to the far end of the cemetery over by that white tree. When I hit record, I had thought that either you or the other person had come up next to me because I I heard one of you say, "Is that where you're putting it?" And I looked over and neither of you were there.

Chelle: We weren't anywhere near you.

Laylla: No, you were both more towards the entrance. So that kind of threw me a little bit. But that is also where, again, this other person had had some some negative vibes. So I I wasn't too surprised. And that's where we did catch the most EVPs, was up near that tree.

Chelle: We put the Ouija board, I don't want to say right where you were recording, but kind of where you had the recorder the first time, which I didn't even think about until like after the fact. I was like, "Oh, wow, we did that in the same spot."

Laylla: They do feel that's a very active area.

Chelle: There was something about that area that kind of, I don't want to say made me feel sick, but kind of made me feel sick. After we were done, I did kind of want to get away from that area. But, you know, in true you and I fashion, we're like, "All right, somebody gave us a freaking weird Ouija board. Let's do this." This was just you and I. It wasn't the person with us. You and I are pretty good with the Ouija board. But I've got to say, my first, and this was the first thing I said to you the minute we were done, you know, normally when you use a Ouija board, sometimes, you know, you got a good flow and everything's like moving through air and, you know, "Woo, we're going all over here talking." This was like if you were trying to get through sludge.

Laylla: Yeah, I felt the same way, yeah.

Chelle: Or if you were like waist-deep in sand trying to walk.

Laylla: Yeah, the planchette's trying to go over gravel or uneven ground or something.

Chelle: Yeah, yeah.

Laylla: It did smooth out. We got an answer. It started to say a name. And then it almost felt like a hand slammed down on the planchette.

Chelle: And, you know, it was kind of funny because it started putting out letters and, you know, stupid me, I'm going to yell out stuff. Some people are like, "Don't talk, let it do." Not me. I knew it was going for William. I don't know why, but I knew it was going for William. And the minute I said it out loud, and you and I had the same exact thought, I felt like whoever was trying to speak through that board was abruptly told, "Oh, no, the fuck you ain't. You ain't talking to them."

Laylla: Yeah. The letters started spelling, and I also immediately heard William in my head. As soon as it was spelling the name, and when you said it out loud, that's when I felt like somebody put their hand down on there like, "No, you're done. You're not talking to them."

Chelle: Yep.

Laylla: Same thing. Now, other people have felt children hold their hand. People have heard names.

Chelle: You kept trying to shush us because you kept thinking off there to the left that you were hearing kids.

Laylla: Over in that one section where I felt like I could hear people, it felt like there were children playing, almost like kids at recess sounds. Laughing, playing. I was not able to catch any of that on video. I'm still going through some of the video, so if I if I find anything that sounds like it might be an EVP, I will put it up. But we have a lot of video I'm still going through. So we didn't catch a lot, but we did end up leaving. Now, before we get to the reason why we left, which happened shortly after our abruptly ended Ouija board session, was there anything that you brought with you to the cemetery, Chelle?

Chelle: Me personally?

Laylla: Yeah, like protection-wise or anything like that.

Chelle: Oh, yeah, you know, hey, my first rodeo. Especially at this joint. Based on experiences I've had here in the past, I came with a selenite stick and I came with a black tourmaline rock, which if if nothing else, if I hit somebody in the head the right way, I could have taken them out.

Laylla: Exactly.

Chelle: I always come with with my jewels. I wore a special, one of my special pentacles. And then I brought two particular things with me that when I'm deal- sometimes my theory is is when I'm dealing with ghosts, I like to have ghosts protect me. Makes sense, right?

Laylla: It does, it does. Ancestors are great for this.

Chelle: You're going to go deal with ghosts, bring the posse. So, as you know, I I had a friend pass away and before that, she'd given me something. And I brought that with me. And I also brought something of my grandfather's because he's been like my ghostie BFF for years. And I had one in one pocket on one side and one in the other pocket on the other side, almost like and me in the middle, you know what I mean?

Laylla: Mhm, yeah.

Chelle: So I had my selenite, my black tourmaline, and my two things for my ghostie people.

Laylla: So this particular time, I brought an acorn with me to leave as an offering. I brought pine needles in my pockets because pine is an excellent protection. I also brought rosemary mixed in with the pine. Again, great protection against spirits. So I just have a few herbs in my pockets. I like that because the scent is very good for me. If I can smell a little rosemary and pine, that's very calming, as well as I know that these are an excellent protection and an excellent banishing component to spells. So by smelling that, that helps remind me, "Oh, you're the witch here, bitch. You can tell them to get the fuck out anytime you want to." The power is right here. So just the smell of that helps to ground me and let me know that I'm in a safe place. So I like the herbs. But leaving offerings on graves is another good idea. Plus, it it helps to leave things there. Never bring anything home with you from a cemetery. And I almost broke that rule, Chelle.

Laylla: Hey, witches. Future Laylla here. While that is the short answer, the long answer is a little more complicated. There are quite a few spell components that can be collected from a cemetery or a graveyard. However, taking anything from a cemetery, especially spell components like grave dirt, is not something to do casually. There's a lot that should go into it before and during. A practitioner should have at least some knowledge of and ideally a connection with the place and the spirit of a person buried at that location, either before or after their death. Forming those relationships with a cemetery should start way before even considering collecting spell components. And for items like grave dirt, this is especially true. The energy of grave dirt as a spell component is shaped not just by who the person was and how they died, but also by how the practitioner relates to them. If the grave dirt is gathered with no knowledge of its properties or permission to take it in the first place, it not working in a spell is the least of your worries. So, the short answer is no, nothing should ever be brought home from a cemetery. The long answer is a lot of prior work, thought, relationship building, and effort is recommended before collecting spell components from a cemetery or a graveyard. Future Laylla out.

Laylla: I picked up a couple of sticks and pine cones. They were so cute.

Chelle: I know. But no, not here. Not here. Not here.

Laylla: I picked up the pine cones and I was carrying them around the cemetery. And I legit started walking towards the path with them in my hand when we were getting ready to leave. And as I got to the guardian tree, I'm like, "What the fuck are you doing?" And I I left them at the guardian tree. I knew better.

Chelle: Thank you. Thank you.

Laylla: No matter how cool it is or how much you think you can cleanse it when you get home, you can't. Don't bring anything back with you from the cemetery. You should not.

Chelle: I do want to mention that my traditional offering is weed, okay? There, I said it. It's important to me. It's important to spirit, you know, hey, always got it with me. Hey.

Laylla: That's right. We did smoke a bowl and offer that to the spirits when we got there, too. Then there was the person that was with us.

Chelle: Yes.

Laylla: And we're going to introduce them. Listeners, say hello to Chelle's true love, Seamus.

Seamus: Hello.

Laylla: So, Seamus came with us on our ghost hunting adventure. And Seamus is not a witch. And are you skeptical of ghosts, Seamus, or do you believe in ghosts?

Seamus: I don't believe in them.

Laylla: So when you came to the cemetery, how did you feel when we were pulling up to it and walking up that path? Did you have any vibes, any feelings? Were you excited?

Seamus: Excited, kind of cool to see.

Chelle: He's probably thinking, "What did my girlfriend get me into this time?"

Seamus: Seriously.

Laylla: So when you first walked in, what was your first impression of the cemetery? What did you see? What did you feel?

Seamus: Different. Different like a different type of cemetery because it was definitely um hard to describe. Unique, I guess, is the word.

Laylla: So when you went off to the to the far side of the cemetery up by the white tree, can you tell us what you felt, what you what it seemed like up there?

Seamus: I was looking around and then I was just like, "Oh, what do I hear?" And I'm deaf.

Laylla: So if you're hearing a noise in the woods, it's probably pretty loud, right?

Seamus: Yes, definitely.

Laylla: So you heard some noises off in the woods?

Seamus: Like animal, like steps, footsteps.

Laylla: Did you see anything?

Seamus: No, but I was drawn to like there was like a opening in the woods, I would say. I don't even think it would be a path. And I kept on looking through that just to see, not seeing anything, but hearing like and could be wind, it could be multiple different things. I don't know.

Laylla: So you're hearing footsteps and noises in the woods. The three of us are like at three very different, very far away from each other points.

Chelle: None of us were close to each other, really.

Laylla: I could hear Seamus by that white tree, exclaiming that there was something in the woods. I remember hearing you yell that there was something up there and you were hearing something in the woods. Now, Chelle, did you hear anything? Could you hear anything in the woods?

Chelle: I did, but not where he did. And I very much there was something there. I was being watched 110%. But us having a different perception, his mind immediately went to animals, whereas you and I, you know, born in the woods, we know if a deer hears and sees us, that motherfucker's running. If a bear hears or sees us, it's running. Um they're more afraid of us than we are of them. So, I knew it wasn't an animal, but I also knew I was being watched by not a person either, because there was nothing there.

Laylla: What I thought was interesting is that Seamus got more agitated and more concerned because the noises in the woods were were getting more apparent, right? Was it getting closer? Was it getting louder?

Seamus: Definitely circling, pacing.

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: And you heard the footsteps clearly.

Seamus: Yeah. Oh, yeah, it was definitely something was out there.

Laylla: Were you able to see anything?

Seamus: No, I wish I could and...

Chelle: Now, when I knew he was getting a little uncomfortable, I'm used to the woods, kind of used to ghosts, and I'm like, "All right, let me go check out and see what's up." I was not hearing what he was hearing where he was hearing it. Again, I was hearing stuff in the back corner. But when I went up to him, I just felt a lot of negativeness. That whole area by that tree.

Seamus: Yeah, it was.

Chelle: It just felt heavy and negative. And that's really where he was. And I'm just I knew something was there. I knew it was not an animal, whereas he thought it was an animal.

Laylla: Yep, and it was after this that I moved the tape recorder up to that area. We brought Seamus down with us to do the Ouija board in the lower part of the cemetery. But the unease that Seamus felt continued to grow. And it as the darkness started to come down on this cemetery, we were all starting to feel extremely uneasy.

Chelle: And it all was centering towards that tree.

Laylla: So I went back and picked up the tape recorder. As I was walking up to it, I heard it click stopped.

Chelle: Wait, was there still tape left on it?

Laylla: There was.

Chelle: Oh my god.

Laylla: It just stopped as I was walking up to it. There is a few things, again, there's a couple things. I will play the recording. We did catch what sounds like drum beats, so we'll play that. And there are a couple things that could possibly be EVPs, so I will get those captured and put up as well so people can take a listen. But most of them happened up by that white tree. As we were leaving, here's what happened. We leave, and Chelle and I both stopped, said goodbye, and then walked forward, not looking back. As we got to the gate, I dropped my herbs as a last offering, again, not looking back because you don't do that. Anytime you've done any type of working with spirits or in a cemetery, you riled them up, it's a good idea to not look back. Some people even say you should cross over water, you should splash yourself with water or drink water. Some people say you should spin clockwise or counterclockwise three times as you leave. I was always taught, don't look back. All of these practices come typically from folk magic, and the idea is to cut off any connection that the spirits of the cemetery have with you. So that way, you don't end up with any spiritual hitchhikers coming to your house.

Chelle: And then there is my sweet darling love, who is a non-believer. He, again, from the city, not familiar with the woods, did not trust a word Laylla and I said. He felt that for our safety, he needed to look back continually because he really thought it was animals. Laylla, you even said, "Don't look back."

Laylla: I did.

Chelle: Did it help? No. We get to the car. Chelle and I are in the front seats. And at the same time, we both look out the passenger window and then follow something to the right that moved quickly. I saw what looked like a white fox in the dark of the woods, maybe 15 feet, 20 feet off the side of the car, and then it ran away towards the rear of the car. Now, you're in the passenger seat, I'm in the driver's seat, so I can see your head, you can't see my head or where I'm looking.

Chelle: Right, because we looked to my right.

Laylla: Yeah, so we looked and I'm like, "She's looking in the same place I am." And then when it moved, your head moved at the same time, so I knew you had seen it run. And I said, "Did you see that?" And you kind of did. What did you see, Chelle?

Chelle: I actually saw a black figure of a person. You saw...

Laylla: A white fox.

Chelle: ...not what I saw, but we saw it in the same spot at the same time.

Laylla: And do the same thing.

Chelle: And I did hear a scream and...

Laylla: I just got chills all over again thinking about that.

Chelle: I don't know why you and I saw something different, but there was definitely something there because we both, for whatever reason...

Laylla: We looked in the same spot. I was standing there. And then it ran off to our right, and we both saw it, but we saw completely different things.

Chelle: I was going to say, but we saw two different things.

Laylla: So that that's wild. We make the drive back to my beautiful, wonderful, awesome, witchy little cottage on the top of the mountain in the woods that used to be a church. Do you think our cemetery story ends there? No. We wish.

Chelle: Yeah, we do.

Laylla: Now, Chelle and Seamus have had some experiences in my house before, Chelle in particular.

Chelle: They watched me sleep in her house, people.

Laylla: And I've seen them, and they're pretty calm as far as ghosts go. I hear crying, which is the worst thing, on occasion.

Chelle: And all the all the times I've stayed at your house, I actually don't hear things. For me, especially when I was staying on your on your first floor, it was just like your deck was surrounded and they were all just watching me sleep through the window. But never bothersome, never loud, just being watched. So it was cool. It wasn't that big of a deal.

Laylla: So, for some reason on the east side of the house, where my bedroom is, that's where we hear the crying. On the south side of the house, on the deck, they walk back and forth, and in the basement on the south side, there's a hallway there, and they walk up and down that basement hallway as well. But they don't really move things too terribly much, just a little bit. They don't really do much. They're just kind of there.

Chelle: You and your ghosts have a have a agreement.

Laylla: Yeah, they're pretty chill. They're pretty mellow. They're very quiet ghosts. Except the night we got back from the cemetery. Why don't you guys tell us what happened?

Chelle: Okay. It was late. We were tired. We're like, we're going to go to bed. So, we were in in your upstairs and shut the door. Now, we had been at your house at this point for like what, four or five nights?

Laylla: Mhm.

Chelle: And we shut the door, we go to bed, whatever. We shut the door. We lay down. Babe, tell them what happened.

Guest: The door kept on opening.

Laylla: Had this happened in any of the other nights that you had stayed here?

Chelle: No. No.

Laylla: Not once?

Guest: No.

Chelle: But you know, I mean, you have like freaking three cats and, you know, I've had cats push my doors open. And I thought to myself, no offense to my love, but, you know, sometimes you ask someone to do something and I asked him to shut the door. Maybe he didn't pull it all the way. Whatever. Okay. I'm like, "You need to get up and shut the door." So, he gets up and shuts the door. Two minutes later, door opens wide open again. I'm like, "All right, you want something done, do it yourself." And I'm thinking, where's the cat? No cat.

Laylla: Nope.

Chelle: I'm like, "All right, shut the door." I did it. I know it was latched. Good to go. Lay back down, get cozy, kiss good night. Door opens again. Motherfucker. I'm like, "No, I know I latched it because I did it myself, so I know it was done right." So, this time, I'm like, "Ooh, Laylla has a lock on here. I'm going to lock it." I I I don't have words for you because that fucking door opened. So, finally, I was like, "You know what? I'm going to do my little thing." I'm like, "All right, whatever is here, back off. We're trying to sleep. Our space." You know, kind of creating our our space. Don't We go to bed. We're good. I did lock it again. I woke up in the morning, I woke up before him, and the door was wide open.

Laylla: Now, my bedroom is a floor below that one. It's a very small room. So, on my door, I have some of those, you know, hangy things that you can hang stuff up on, a bunch of coats and sweaters and everything. It's a very heavy door. My door will swing open pretty easily, but to shut it kind of takes a little bit of effort. I usually leave the door open. There's nobody on the first floor. My dumb cats like to come in and out, so leaving it open is less effort. I woke up the next morning and I walk out of my bedroom and I'm on the little landing in front of my door and I'm talking to my beloved. My door slammed shut. No cats nearby, no windows open. My doors never do that. The doors in this house do not open and shut on their own. They just don't. But my door slammed shut that morning and I immediately said, "Sheamus, get your ass down here."

Chelle: And then I immediately felt guilty.

Laylla: Right. But part of that was our fault. We probably should have followed some protocols when we got home. We should have smoke cleansed with some rosemary or some sage. We should have thrown some salt over the doorway. We could have thrown some water on the ground and stepped over it. But I was thinking, you and I know the protocols. We did all the right things when we left that cemetery.

Chelle: And we kept saying, "But we did everything." Except make sure that he did everything.

Laylla: That's right. And so, we could have taken some even further secondary precautions and we didn't. But you guys, unfortunately, had to leave pretty quickly after that. So, I was left to take care of the infestation on my own.

Chelle: I actually kind of bitched for like a day and a half. I'm like, "And then you brought a ghost back to Laylla's house." It was hysterical. And and he actually felt absolutely horrible. He was like torn between, "I don't believe any of this, but I feel bad because Laylla thinks I did something to her house, so I need to apologize even though I don't believe it."

Laylla: Actually, it wasn't that difficult. My office in the basement is relatively central, so I just did a very simple banishment and protection circle from there, smoked out the entire house. Between putting sage and rosemary and pine, a little bit of dragon's blood and some frankincense on my charcoal burner and smoking a big fat joint and walking through the house being like, "Get the fuck out. This is my house." That worked. It was fine. Wasn't that difficult. My house is relatively warded anyway, so it was very simple to cleanse it and reseal everything. Plus, I think it was a kid, so they just went home.

Chelle: I still felt bad. And I think that's something that people don't think about, that if you are going to interact with spirits or or what have you, there is the possibility that you bring it back to your personal space. And you have to be cognizant of kind of either cutting those ties, you know, shutting that door, you know, keeping that that boundary between, "This is your space, but this is my space."

Laylla: Yeah, especially if you're going to do something like we did. Like, we didn't just go there to check out the cemetery and see if we got any vibes.

Chelle: We used a fucking Ouija board, for God's sake.

Laylla: Yeah, we asked questions. We purposefully kind of tried to rile them up. So, we could have been more careful and we should have been. Sheamus was with us, so we should have made him follow the same protocols that we did, especially because he was coming back to my house.

Chelle: But you know, even if we didn't do anything, I have a belief that people who I don't want to say believe, but for lack of a better word, believe, spirit knows who kind of gets it and who kind of doesn't. Kind of like they know who's going to pick up the phone if they call. And if spirit really has a message, they're going to try to cling to the first person they think can hear it.

Laylla: Good point.

Chelle: So, people like you and I, even if we didn't do the Ouija board, we would still want to kind of cut those ties because spirit might try to cling to us as a means to pass a message, say a message, whatever.

Laylla: That's a good point. And different cemeteries or graveyards are going to have different a different vibe, you know, depending on what the guardians like, depending on what who's buried there is like, or how how it's interacted with. So, when you go there, you'll kind of get that feeling. And and this one is definitely active. It's very active. So, we should have taken better precautions.

Chelle: Not only is it active, but it's active in a almost like they're lonely.

Laylla: Maybe that's why people a lot of people think that there's a lot of children there, you know, or maybe because there are a lot of children there, you know, they they want to play. They want to do something. They want to be active.

Chelle: Including go home with you.

Laylla: Including go home with you. So, a lot of the things that we mentioned are really great things to do. Also, making sure to say goodbye, making sure to tell them. It's it's surprisingly simple, the things that you can do to cleanse yourself. You can wipe your whole body down with your hands. Like you said, Chelle, cut the ties, literally. You could draw a line in the dirt and walk over it. That can be enough of a barrier that they'll walk up and they'll be like, "Oh, shit. There's a fence here. I can't get past it."

Chelle: Almost like create your threshold.

Laylla: Exactly. Do it with salt. Do it with hot pepper flakes. Red pepper flakes are fabulous to make a line. Water, particularly running water, is brilliant to stop spirits, negative energy, from following you. You can even drink it. I had a bottle of water in the car and I chugged it with the thought of that cleansing, you know, that water separating me from the spirit world, you know, coming back across the hedge kind of idea. So, sometimes you might want to make a relationship with a cemetery. Maybe you're lucky enough to live close to one and you can have a relationship there. Working with the spirits of a cemetery can bring a lot of benefits to a witch, including graveyard dirt, which is not something Again, we didn't take anything from this graveyard. I don't recommend taking graveyard dirt unless it is a graveyard or a cemetery that you have a relationship with.

Chelle: But be fucking respectful because, you know, that is people's final resting place.

Laylla: Oh, absolutely. Yeah, definitely. Definitely. And that's why people leave offerings. It's always a good idea to leave offerings to the dead and make that relationship if you're going to go and gather cemetery dirt because it is one of those things that can have a lot of uses in different types of folk magic and magical practices.

Chelle: Should we talk about sealing off your board after you've done something ridiculous like what we did? Like cutting the tie with your board, too.

Laylla: We did talk a little bit in a previous episode about things that you can do with a Ouija board to keep it safe. And after opening any type of divination tool like a Ouija board or tarot cards and attempting to contact people who have passed on, is there anything that you would recommend that that someone do if they are trying to invite spirits to talk to them through, say, a Ouija board or tarot cards?

Chelle: Well, I guess I would have to ask, first of all, are you looking to speak with anything or or something you're connected to? Obviously, if it's someone you're connected to, if it's your grandmother, maybe you have a pin of hers or something. Um, if you're just going random, give it a go.

Laylla: Like say in the cemetery, if we had put around that Ouija board maybe some toys or candy or or if we had picked, say, um, there's a couple young Scottish women that are buried right there. We could have picked something that they might have liked to try and draw them in particular.

Chelle: Or just basically trying to use the Ouija board at their grave. Make that connection energetically, you know?

Laylla: And then afterwards, when you're done, is there anything you recommend after you're done using a Ouija board to contact spirits?

Chelle: Usually, I like to have it like wrapped in something, you know, kind of like how we have our our our tarot cards wrapped in silk. This one wasn't, but generally, I like to have it wrapped, kind of like a cleansing cloth, you know?

Laylla: I was taught with tarot cards that in order to protect them, you should always keep them covered with a cloth when you're not using them because tarot cards, in order to answer a question, they absorb energy, in my belief. You know, they kind of gather your energy, how you're feeling, what your future's like, and and that's what they're that's how they do the reading. So, by wrapping them in a cloth, you're making a barrier between your very sensitive, energetically sponge cards and the energy in the air around them. And so, that kind of severs that connection. And the same thing with like a Ouija board. If you put it back in the box or if you wrap it in a cloth, the idea is that you are closing it off from any type of energetic or spiritual connection. For me, for Ouija boards, I feel that as long as the planchette's not connected to it, for me, that's more than enough to close it off. It is no longer energetically active unless the two pieces are together.

Chelle: Okay. I I see your point.

Laylla: Some people feel that wrapping it in a cloth, silk or natural fibers, are very often preferred, but any cloth will do, or putting it in the box or a special box, putting it behind glass. Some people feel that glass will stop that energy from going through. But for me personally, I just feel that as long as the planchette is not touching it, that it uh has severed that connection. Or if you say goodbye. I do remember we distinctly said goodbye and we kind of closed that mentally when we were done with the Ouija board. We're like, "All right, this is obviously over. Now we're saying it's over. We're done. Thank you."

Chelle: I think of using a Ouija board, and I always have, using a Ouija board is like making a phone call. In the beginning, you say hello, and at the end, you say goodbye. You can't be rude to spirit. So, we'll be going back. We'll be checking out some other places and trying our very rudimentary, very beginner ghost hunting skills in other places.

Chelle: I think that even though we do basic stuff, Laylla, you and I always get results, man.

Laylla: We do, and they're pretty interesting. I'm very excited to uh put up some pictures and put up some of the different EVPs that we got and see what people think. If you have a recommendation of some haunted place that Chelle and I should go to that's in the Pennsylvania, New York, Massachusetts area, let us know because we will fucking around and find out.

Chelle: Totally. Totally.

Laylla: You know, we might not do it as pros, but we'll try real hard. So, when this episode comes out, it will be after we have picked our winner for the Season of the Witch giveaway.

Chelle: I am so excited. Just real quick, you all rock, guys. Like, you totally rock. And a special shout-out to the folks in Vegas. I don't know if y'all know each other, if you like pooled all your stamps together, but y'all make me giggle and I love it.

Laylla: We are very excited. This is a little trippy, Chelle, because you and I are talking right now and we don't know who the winner is, but when people are listening to us talking, we will know who the winner is. I don't know if my brain can handle that.

Chelle: Weird. Wait. Yeah, weird.

Laylla: It's like time travel, I swear.

Chelle: It really is. Star Trek.

Laylla: Yeah, but I'm excited to find out who the winner is. So, congratulations to you, whoever you happen to be. And thank you all so much for making our day. I love reading these letters. We get spells, we get tips, we get thank-yous, we get so much cool stuff.

Chelle: And we get gifts. And you guys, you know, thank you for the gifts. We thank you. Thank you.

Laylla: Thank you. All right. Well, our next episode will most likely be on the upcoming holiday of Samhain. Blessed Samhain is coming up. So, we'll have some information, some tips, some ideas for that. And hopefully, we'll be checking out some more haunted, witchy places. Lots of interesting things for the Season of the Witch.

Chelle: This is really my favorite time of year because not just Season of the Witch, but, you know, there's nothing like some good fall, crisp, cool temperature, seasons changing, next tick of the wheel, high holiday. God, I love it.

Laylla: I do. And I am so much looking forward to Samhain with my new Crystal City Circle community. Everything is going so good there.

Chelle: Jealous. Hey, you've got a great coven, too.

Laylla: I do. My coven's freaking fabulous and I love them to bits.

Chelle: So, if you are in the northern PA or in the New York area, send us an email. You know, check out Mandragora Magika or email us. We've got some connections. Maybe we can help you find a group for the Season of the Witch as well. But in the meantime, keep it ghosty, my fellow witches. Stay wise, stay wicked.

Chelle: And keep it witchy in the woods with the ghosties, my friends.
