Laylla: Welcome to Back on the Broomstick, a modern witches' spoken word grimoire, where two witchy friends from way back are reconnecting to their pagan roots after a long period of mundanity. We're rewalking the path of the wise and trying out all the latest spells, rituals, and magical theory in today's witchcraft and pagan practices. So grab your wand and your incense, your cauldron and your crystals, and join us as we get back on the broomstick.

Laylla: Hi, and welcome to Back on the Broomstick. I'm Laylla, and this is part two of our seven-part deity series. Our topic for this episode is the second face of the God: the Father, the Warrior, the Oak King in all his summer strength. This is the God who walks the paths of sacred spaces, the lover who tends the land with fierce devotion, and the wild-hearted father who nurtures and defends. He is the Horned God in full maturity.

Chelle: I'm ready to talk about all things Horned Gods. I'm Chelle.

Laylla: When you think Father God, you think Horned Gods, horny gods, literally and figuratively.

Chelle: Exactly. And I know that we like to, to, not to jump right in, but I know we like to kind of think of this face, not just you and I, but maybe people in general, as the Green Man or Cernunnos. But I forgot about Pan, and, and Pan is really kind of in this sphere as well.

Laylla: Like we talked about last episode, we were talking about the youthful God. We talked about Pan and Cernunnos in that aspect as well, because like us, like Goddess, like Gods, we don't all neatly fit into one box. We're not all just a youthful God.

Chelle: We're multifaceted folk.

Laylla: That's right. Don't pin us down, and you certainly can't pin a Horned God down because they are nothing if not multifaceted.

Chelle: Might be able to strap them down, though.

Laylla: Oh, they'd like that.

Chelle: Yeah. So, yeah, Pan. You know, I like that you brought up Pan and Cernunnos because to me, they are two amazing, wonderful sides of the Horned God, of the Father God. Cernunnos is that stag-horned lord that walks the forest path. He's more the protector God. He's the wise lover. He's the wise one that will lead you through the paths because he knows the way. And Pan is more that impetuous, that lustful, youthful, playful...

Chelle: You know, you're, you're kind of touching on exactly how I, I wanted to explain it, too. Kind of the, I look at Pan as almost that bridge between youth and adult, and then Cernunnos is almost that bridge between adult and sage. Does that make sense?

Laylla: It does. It does. And you know, this episode, we're going to do that a lot, I think, because especially this aspect of the God, the Father God, the Warrior God, they're all kind of that God. Like, every single one of them has that aspect, I guess, in some way.

Chelle: But they're also that nurturer, that lover, that, that fertility bringer.

Laylla: But I'm also saying they're also the youth and the sage. They're all of the things, yeah. They're all the parts. And so, and that's the first God that most people get introduced to. When you think of witchcraft, when you think of the father of, of all witcheries, it's Cernunnos, it's the Horned God. It is the Horned God of the witches. That's the one that we think of. And, and I, I hate to say it, but Jason Mankey hit the Horned God right on the antlers, I guess, with that one because the title of, of Jason Mankey's book is The Horned God of the Witches, and, and it's an excellent book, and he does a very good job of talking about the God of the witches. He does not talk about the aspects explicitly that we're talking about here today. Again, this isn't going to be everybody's concept. But that's the God that you're first introduced to. That's the one that you see when you walk into witchcraft, I guess.

Chelle: And the same goes for, for visually, too. Say you go to the old Google and, you know, you look up pagan gods, one of the first ones visually you're going to see is, is Cernunnos, either in one of two poses: that, that sexy, half-naked, antler, you know, holding the torc, holding the serpent, you know, with his hooved feet, or you're going to see that, that more, I call it rustic, and rustic's not the word, but it's kind of that old-fashioned, older-looking Cernunnos, you know, legs crossed, hands crossed, the big, huge, straight-up horns. Those are generally those two visuals you see.

Laylla: Yeah, and, and I think that perfectly encapsulates Cernunnos because he's, um, a stitched-together God. He doesn't really have a lot of mythos. He doesn't have a lot of folklore behind him. He's...

Chelle: Because I do feel, I do feel that this is maybe a couple of different stories wrapped into one person.

Laylla: Absolutely.

Chelle: One name, one name.

Laylla: Yes. Yes, and so he's one of those Gods that is very, he's modern in some ways, like that, that modern, sexy, great horned Lord of the Wood, and then he's the ancient, older Cernunnos that we don't know a lot about, the mysterious, cross-legged line drawing that you're talking about.

Chelle: Leaf-faced.

Laylla: Yeah, the faces.

Chelle: Vine-faced.

Laylla: That you'll see, oh, I love that you brought that up. So, that's another thing, the, the Green Man, the, the face of the Green Man that you'll see in all these different places is a face that represents nature and represents the growing things and the growing season, which is also something very much that the God represents, that cycle of growth and of maturation and, and nurturing.

Chelle: But also regeneration and rebirth. A lot of the artwork that I have of the Green Man, it's almost like his inner face is like a lighter green of new growth, and as the leaves go out to the sides of his face, it's almost like they're darker greens, like wisdom, wear and tear, you know what I mean?

Laylla: Yeah, so in that aspect, that Green Man face is the triple God, you know. He is that regeneration, which is the youth, he's the maturation and growth, that's the Father God, and then he's the, like you said, the battered, the wisdom of the Sage God. So, it shows all the different aspects in the one face. It's such a pervasive symbol. Pretty sure in the UK, you can find it in all sorts of historic places, including one of...

Chelle: Oh my god. Oh my god.

Laylla: What?

Chelle: So, now I know we have some UK listeners. Hi, mates. So, the King, Charles himself, Chucky boy, I affectionately call him Chucky boy. So, Chucky boy...

Laylla: Are you allowed?

Chelle: Um, I actually, I have a friend who lives in England.

Laylla: Oh, so that means you're allowed to call the King Chucky boy?

Chelle: Very good friend of mine, and him and I have agreed that I'm okay to call him Chucky boy.

Laylla: All right, fair, fair.

Chelle: I used to call the Queen Lizzie with my friend, so it's okay.

Laylla: Ah.

Chelle: So, Chucky boy, he has his coronation. He put the Green Man on his coronation invites. For those of you who don't know, and if we do have any listeners in England who have a invite from the coronation, please post a picture. He used the Green Man in this. Now, I think, and, you know, I'm just going on what I read, I'm not him, I don't know what his, his internal dialogue was, but the Green Man symbolizes, you know, spring, rebirth. He thought that it would be a good symbol for a new reign, and as a lot of people might or may not know, Charles is very much an environmentalist.

Laylla: Environmentalist, yeah.

Chelle: He's very much into flowers, plants, uh, trees. So, they thought that it was also relevant to his lifelong dedication to environmentalism and the natural world. I was blown away because, you know, you think of things like the monarchy, you know, they're a part of the Church of England, um, very Christian, and it almost felt like, hey, they haven't forgotten us.

Laylla: These are very old symbols. You'll see them everywhere, and I'm not surprised that an environmentalist would use that as a symbol because the Green Man, the Father God, is very much all about the growing things, and he is strongest when the growing season is at its height, so it makes total sense.

Chelle: But they do actually have, um, the Green Man in, I don't know what they're called, but you know how they would put like those plaster things on old buildings, especially, um, in England, gargoyles and what have you. There are actually a lot of Green Men, um, on churches and such.

Laylla: There are, including my favorite, Rosslyn Chapel, which has a lot of Green Men in it, and is quite the mystery because it even has ears of corn in it, in the decorations, and they hadn't discovered America yet when that chapel was built.

Chelle: Well, that's interest, I didn't know that.

Laylla: Yeah.

Chelle: The thing I thought was interesting is that I've read in certain places that they did that to kind of bridge the gap between paganism and Christianity.

Laylla: Yeah. Yeah, that's a nice way of saying they did that so that they could sucker all the pagans into following them. But yeah, I'm not a historian, but yeah, so they did a lot of things like that, including changing dates of holidays and co-opting symbols, so that's a different podcast, though.

Chelle: Different podcast, different podcast. But I would like to say that if we do have any listeners over in that region, if you do have pictures or could get pictures, I would totally be interested in seeing them. Please post them.

Laylla: Absolutely. Yeah, if you got pictures of Rosslyn Chapel, I love that shit. So, the Green Man symbology is popular with environmentalists and witches. But when a lot of witches talk about the God, if they talk about the God, we're talking about this masculine energy that we all wear sometimes, you know, this, this idea of the cycle of our life. And so, seeing the God in these different forms is supposed to mirror us, as well as the cycle of the seasons.

Chelle: But, you know, like you said, I think that for whatever reason, people have, they're kind of quick to dismiss any relation with a God aspect, and I've always felt that Cernunnos was kind of a good segue for people that are a little anxiety-ridden about working with God energy, maybe based on past experiences with past religions, because Cernunnos, I feel, gives you that, "I am going to wrap you up and, and hug you to death and teach you all you need to know and boot your ass out the door when you're ready."

Laylla: Yes, but Cernunnos is also scary to people because he's also highly sexual. He's very wild. He is the wild man running through the woods. He's the lover. He's the fierce lover. And sometimes that type of sexuality can be very scary to people. And he's also very horny. He's got a lot of horns. If you're coming from Christianity, that says devil, that says Satan. They automatically see goat feet and horns and assume Satan because that's how it's been painted for hundreds of years. You know, if they want to show someone as being evil or lecherous, they throw horns on them. They make them look like a, quote-unquote, demon or devil, and that always involves horns. So, sometimes I think Cernunnos can be scary to people.

Chelle: Especially, uh, Pan. I think that is, is very much a thing with Pan as well, because Pan, I think, visually is much closer to the Christian devil than, than maybe Cernunnos.

Laylla: Yeah, and I think you're right. I think Cernunnos has more of that caring, "I'm going to wrap you up in my arms and ask for consent every step of the way," whereas Pan's a little more crass and wild about it, I guess, so, right?

Chelle: A little more BDSM.

Laylla: There you go. Actually, I love that you said that about Cernunnos, too, because he is that kind and, and wonderful aspect of being a lover, and, and it reminds me of a quote from The Spiral Dance that I wanted to mention, too. Starhawk in The Spiral Dance does talk about the aspect of the God very reverently, slightly in subservience to the Goddess. She's not quite hip to the whole equality thing exactly, but she does very much feel that the God is a vital part of any type of witchcraft religion because you need that balance, right? And I think that the pagan idea of manhood and masculinity is different than people that come from an Abrahamic religion background idea of masculinity.

Chelle: Absolutely. Absolutely.

Laylla: And I love her quote about it. So, she said, Starhawk says, quote, "If a man had been created in the Horned God's image, he would be free to be wild without being cruel, angry without being violent, sexual without being coercive, spiritual without being unsexed, and truly able to love." And I think that that is beautiful, and that, that really does sum up one version of what I think is positive pagan masculinity. I, I know that there are bad people in all different groups and everything, but positive aspects of the Father God, positive aspects of sexuality, you know, positive role models for people who identify as men, all of this are aspects of the Green Man. It's very important to have masculinity that compliments femininity. You can't have regenerative life without both those aspects. If you're looking at it from purely a creation standpoint, nature requires these things. In nature, you have to have male and female to create life in order for things to keep moving forward, in order for the cycle to continue. You know, there's this balance, this beautiful blending and creation, and those are energies that we can embody. It doesn't have to be literal, but we can embody that idea of creation, of having these masculine and feminine energies within us and within the cycles of our life. And it's a joy and a beautiful celebration when you come to Cernunnos that way.

Chelle: But I do want to point out that you can work with Cernunnos and you can work with that energy without it necessarily having to be in any sort of sexual context, because that is scary to people, and I don't want people to be like, "Okay, well, I can never work with Cernunnos because, you know, I'm not, that's, that's not my thing." With everything, deity included, you know, you just got to set boundaries.

Laylla: And the aspect of the Oak King, of Cernunnos, of growing things, and even of sexuality, that just means celebration of life, celebration of creation. That just means joyous, spontaneous becoming. It doesn't necessarily have to be sex. It can be creating something new. It can be, you've started something as the youth, now you're seeing it through, you're following it through, you're doing the thing that needs to be done, right? And you're doing it with joy and with work and with energy, and that's also part of that Father God, Cernunnos, high noon sun God energy. It's not all, all just sex, but creation of life, creation, and follow-through is part of that.

Chelle: I have to do this. I have to make a left turn story here because this is hysterical and relevant, and the listeners need to hear this as well as you. So, at my wonderful part-time job that I love so much, we sell crystal figures. There are little figurines of penises, I'm not going to lie. So, at one point, we had them up at the front register, and you know how when you go to a lot of metaphysical shops, they have those like those little mesh bags. So, we have each one in, in a little bag for people at the front register, and people are like, "Oh, what's this?" because you couldn't really see. "It's a bag of dicks. You need a bag of dicks. Everybody needs a bag of dicks." That was the thing.

Laylla: And they're pretty dicks.

Chelle: They are pretty dicks.

Laylla: Pretty crystal dicks.

Chelle: They really are, made from multiple different style crystals.

Laylla: Variety of dicks is always good.

Chelle: Actually, now we sell big ones, too. Not even going there, different conversation. So, back to bag of dicks. You know, we had a couple of customers be like, "Oh, you know, I don't need any kind of fertility in my life. I've had my kids." Okay, I get you. I've had my kids. I'm good. Fertility doesn't always mean babies. And we used to tell people, because now we've sold out of our bags of dicks, they are all sold out, everybody got their bags of dicks.

Laylla: I, I kind of want a bag of dicks. I'm sad I don't have them.

Chelle: I'm going to have to ask my boss if we can order more dicks.

Laylla: If there's any like spare dicks behind the counter, see if there's any dicks in the back that they can bag up for us. Maybe there's some dicks hidden in a corner of a box or something.

Chelle: Well, we have big dicks now, which I wasn't going to mention, but now we have like life-size. Anywho, so then we started telling people that you can put these little dicks in your wallet, and fertility can mean a fertile wallet.

Laylla: Yeah.

Chelle: You know, you can put it in your garden, it can be a fertile garden. Just because you buy a little bag of dicks doesn't mean babies and that kind of...

Laylla: It doesn't have to be babies or sex.

Chelle: Right, doesn't have to be sex-related. It could be you put your little dick in your wallet because you need money.

Laylla: I like to have a little crystal dick when I need to stand up firm for what I believe in.

Chelle: I just love this because I know my boss is listening, and he's cracking his ass up right now, and I really hope he's ordering more little dicks.

Laylla: I need a little bag of dicks, Tim. I'm telling you right now, I need them. I need, I do. But yeah, no, this is action energy. A little bag of dicks is a bag of action. You've got a, you've got a bag of get up and go.

Chelle: But see, it's a relevant analogy. It's a relevant analogy.

Laylla: Just like in our, in our series about magic, what metaphors can you make with a bag of dicks? What type of energy does that masculine, get up and go, that direct action energy? And I really liked when our old community did get together for Beltane a couple of years ago, instead of having the men's and women's mysteries like we used to, they changed the names, and I can't remember offhand exactly what it was, but it was something more akin to active and receptive energies. And it did pretty much still break along gender lines, but this was the first year, because I've kind of felt called to go to the men's mysteries before, and I would have been welcome no matter what it was called in our old community. You could go where...

Chelle: Oh, absolutely.

Laylla: Yes, whatever energy you were walking in, go to that mystery. But I just never did until they changed the name, and I went, and I very much enjoyed participating in that mystery that particular year. But it was named something different. It was more like, uh, direct action or something along those lines. But that's really what that, what that energy of that dick is, that masculine energy. It doesn't have to...

Chelle: You just grab that bag of dicks and threw them over your shoulder and off you went.

Laylla: Off I went with an axe in my hand to chop down a tree, with all the other people with the bags of dicks in their hands, too, because we all had that direct action energy, right? But yeah, I mean, it doesn't have to be, you know, babies and sex. This type of energy is, is creation, it's being a father, it's following through, it's teaching, it's modeling behavior.

Chelle: Mentoring, all of that.

Laylla: Exactly, all of that. And if you need to have a little crystal dick in your wallet to remind you to be that stand-up kind of person who takes action and is a good mentor, then get yourself the prettiest little crystal dick you can find and carry it in a bag.

Chelle: Tim, we need more crystal dicks.

Laylla: We do. We do. But you know, that's, that is the lesson of this God, is that, yeah, sometimes he does look scary. Sometimes he's big and intimidating, but that can be you, too. He's in all of us, and sometimes you need to be big and scary and intimidating, and sometimes you need to be that nurturing father and that person who has the get up and go and the fight under their ass or or who does stand up, rise and stand up for what they want, you know?

Chelle: Yeah, we can keep going with this all night, people.

Laylla: We really could. We really could. You know, I did have a question, Chelle.

Chelle: Okay.

Laylla: A few listeners did mention that they liked the idea of this particular series that we're going to be doing about the God and the Goddess. However, they have a little bit of a bone to pick with the aspect of the Oak King and the Holly King.

Chelle: Talk to me. Talk to me, Laylla.

Laylla: Well, we've had this question before, and I think our answer is going to kind of be similar here. But people are saying that neither oaks nor hollies grow in their part of the United States.

Chelle: So what?

Laylla: Yeah, that's what I said, too. But yeah, it it can be kind of hard when all the major things are talking about concepts and plants and ideas and and even weather patterns that are from the northeastern, yeah, they're from the northeastern United States or Western Europe, particularly. So they don't exactly match.

Chelle: Okay. Now, we have kind of talked about this, I think, previously in many, many, many different episodes, but I think it comes down to what I like to call magic of place. Maybe you have palm trees and coconut trees. Okay, then call it the the the palm and the coconut king, you know, like whatever works for you in in your environment. Let's say I lived in Hawaii. It's my dream. I just want to be in 72 degrees all year round. Palm trees and coconut trees is a good analogy because they are, you know, you're not getting oak trees and and holly trees out in Hawaii. Visually, use what you got. If you have to use a coconut tree and a palm tree in lieu of the oak and and holly, then that's what you do to visualize that in your head.

Laylla: Call them by native plants in your area. Whatever's at its height of of growth in the summer would be the summer god, would be the young god. And whatever is at its height of growth or power in around Samhain and Yule would be the dark half of the year god, the Holly King, the sage god.

Chelle: Maybe it's the Joshua tree and the cactus. I don't know.

Laylla: That's right. And that's really the point is that no matter where you live, the solstices and the equinoxes are going to happen wherever you happen to be. So this changing of seasons happens, even if it doesn't look just like it does here. That's not the point. The point is that the change is happening. Magic of place, local. What does it look like where you live? What does that type of active god energy, that growing, changing season energy, that year-long cycle, what does that look like where you live? We're witches. This is what we do. You learn your whole life. You will never be done learning.

Chelle: Oh my god, another funny left turn story totally relevant.

Laylla: Go for it.

Chelle: So we did, um, I I was at my my coven's Samhain gathering. Love you guys.

Laylla: I love them, too.

Chelle: In our tradition, in the in the Welsh tradition, there's this thing with nine woods. Okay, I am not in Great Britain, and I don't have access to each of those individual nine different woods, nor does my high priestess. So here in Salem, Massachusetts, there is a location that is probably the best pinpoint of where people were actually killed as witches, that whole Proctor's Proctor's Ledge that we went to.

Laylla: It is not an actual ledge, Josh.

Chelle: And so what she did for her nine woods is she went and collected nine different sticks from that particular location. Are these the traditional nine woods from Wales? No. Does it suffice? Ab-so-freaking-lutely.

Laylla: I remember when the great Billy Bardo,

Chelle: Oh, Billy.

Laylla: did a Beltane fire, believe it was a Beltane fire, might have been a Samhain fire, not sure, one of the two.

Chelle: It was a fire.

Laylla: It was a fire, for ritual, but he also did the nine sacred woods. And the way he did it was he knew some crafts people that had access and used some of the different woods in their craft, so they had those. And I think at least two pieces of wood came from furniture, one had been refurbished and it was leftover pieces of oak or something, I don't remember. And I don't remember what the second wood was, but it was a piece that was beyond repair, but it was a particular type of wood that was needed for the nine sacred woods. So needs must, man. You got to do what you got to do.

Chelle: Got to do what you got to do.

Laylla: Exactly. And the important thing is your high priestess picked nine sticks from a local, very sacred place. That's nine sacred woods right there.

Chelle: Exactly. Exactly.

Laylla: And that's nine woods that are sacred to you and your land and the place where you guys are walking right now.

Chelle: Correct.

Laylla: The solstice is happening. This year-long cycle season, the Wheel of the Year is really the wheel of the God. And so that cycle is going to happen no matter where you live. So write about it, follow it. You know I got to say journal, drink, people, if you're doing the Reddit game. I've said journaling, so have a drink, drink to it.

Chelle: You and your damn journals.

Laylla: I know. Apparently, there's a drinking game based on it. Anyway, so the Oak King that we're talking about today is really the mature aspect of the God, the Green Man, Cernunnos, that, you know, the sexy, mature daddy god, you know? He's the big-shouldered, walk you home through the woods kind of guy.

Chelle: Oh, chick-a-boom-boom.

Laylla: Exactly. And he rules on the light half of the year. And there's a lot of confusion about that one, too.

Chelle: Oh lord. It's light when it's dark, it's dark when it's light. Just kill me now.

Laylla: So the Oak King rules the light half of the year, which is from Yule until Litha?

Chelle: Yeah, which is pretty dark when he starts.

Laylla: Yeah. And then the Holly King starts his rule when it's very bright. It seems bright, but the dark half of the year starts right after the solstice, right after the longest day, then the night starts to get stronger, and that's when the dark half of the year starts. So it's a little confusing for people. And I I don't think of it so much as like they replace each other. I think of it as parts of the year they walk hand in hand.

Chelle: Like a passing the torch kind of thing.

Laylla: Almost, but walking together before they pass the torch. Like, you know, we had the fight back in the day where we had the two of them fight for the hand of the Goddess.

Chelle: A sword fight, yep.

Laylla: Yeah, and one replaced the other. I think they walk side by side during that transition.

Chelle: Yeah, yep.

Laylla: So Yule is coming up, and that's when the young god is born. That's when the the Oak King is born. I don't think that the Holly King, the sage god, goes away. I think at Yule, he is walking hand in hand with the Oak King.

Chelle: Correct.

Laylla: So after the winter solstice, after Yule, it's technically the light half of the year, and the young god, the Oak King, reigns supreme on the light half, even though it still seems dark and cold and not a lot is growing, it's still the light half of the year. And because it's still dark and cold, the Holly King is still in power. Death still walks the land. December and January, February are still the depths of winter. So they're together, the young, growing Oak King and the strong, powerful sage god, right? So the Oak King as youth is learning and growing stronger, just as the sun in the sky is growing stronger and the days are getting longer. The Oak King grows up. He's a young child at Imbolc, a young man at Ostara, and then is fully in his power, a mature man at Beltane. And now he's walking alone. After Ostara, the Holly King's really no longer there. It's just the Oak King walking in full power through Beltane up to Litha.

Chelle: At Beltane, he walks on his own, for sure.

Laylla: And at Litha, the Oak King is joined by the Holly King. But now it's the young god who is technically the strong one, even as his power is waning, like the sun. And the Holly King is growing in power. Then the wheel turns and we've got Lughnasadh and Mabon, and the young god is cut down and sacrificed and finally laid to rest at Samhain. And so the Holly King walks alone from Samhain until the Oak King is reborn at Yule.

Chelle: And that's how he's blown my mind because I always think of the Holly King as like a Yule thing, and like it's just it's it's just it's confusing to me.

Laylla: It is. It's 30 years later, I still don't understand it. Yeah, it's hard because they're together sometimes, waxing and waning through the whole year. And you could see them as one kind of dude growing and, you know, changing throughout his life. It's just one person. He's just himself.

Chelle: Similar to the Triple Goddess and how technically it's one, see?

Laylla: Exactly. See how that all works? It all comes right back around. We can weave it all right back in. And so bringing that into your life, again, the Father God, that masculine energy, that nurturing strength. Not all of us had great dads. Some of us do, some don't. Some of us have great stepdads, some of us don't. Whatever father-type figure you have in your life, or whatever father figure you wish you had in your life or you wish you could be, you know, be that father figure yourself. Think about that, that nurturing energy. That's that's a wonderful way to connect with that.

Chelle: You got you got to switch topics or I'm going to go into a Taylor Swift nosedive. New album, song "Father Figure," move on.

Laylla: The "Father Figure" I know was by

Chelle: George Michael.

Laylla: Yes.

Chelle: Yes.

Laylla: All right. So, Father Gods, remind us masculinity can be sacred without being overdominant and dickish. The body is sacred, and desire's not sin. It can be spellcraft. Desire and sexuality and growing and all these things are sacred and part of life. And we need to be more connected to that. I love that you brought up local and being local to find how these seasons relate to your life because that's another excellent way to connect with the Green Man, with Cernunnos, with that father figure of the God.

Chelle: And maybe people in different traditions may have a different name for this aspect of the God and not Cernunnos or Pan. Whatever mythos, whatever tradition you follow, whatever that that father figure, that kind of warrior aspect that works for you, the name is irrelevant. It doesn't have to be Cernunnos or Pan. It could be whatever you follow.

Laylla: It could be Shiva, it could be Anubis, it could be the Dagda, it could be all all these different Father Gods, you know, whatever tradition that you're from. I don't know all the Father Gods in all the different traditions, but they're out there. And they all have that aspect of encouraging you, teaching you, trying to walk with you, yeah, protecting you. If you need protection, these are the gods to call. If you ever had to call your dad to come and get you, you know, "My dad's bigger than your dad," that kind of thing. You need that.

Chelle: My Cernunnos is bigger than your Cernunnos.

Laylla: Yeah, you need a little protection, that's who you're going to be calling in. And you can embody that energy. You can walk in that masculine energy yourself and bring that go-get-them attitude, that fearlessness, that protectiveness, that nurturing, that sexuality, that growth, whatever that is, whatever that Father God, Warrior God energy is for you. If you need that, call on one of those Father Gods.

Chelle: Bring your bag of dicks, folks. Bring your bag of dicks.

Laylla: There you go. And on that note, order us some dicks, Tim. I'm going to go to work and he's just going to be like, "What the hell?" Everybody's going to be like, "We need these dicks. Where's the dicks?" Right? Work with the Father God, especially this time of year, work with the Holly King. You know, he's a little scary around Samhain. The Oak King has been sacrificed, and, you know, he he's kind of gone right now. It's a little weird that we're talking about the Father God in the season where he's not really here right now.

Chelle: Yeah, I mean, it's it's it's definitely past his time, but it's almost like we just had that like crossover where he was kind of fading out. They were in that hand in hand, and now he's fading.

Laylla: You know, the Holly King in his aspect of Santa Claus, the holly jolly old guy with the white beard, he's also seen as a father, Father Christmas. He's sometimes called Father Christmas. He's a provider. So he's both those things. He's the father and the sage. You know, some more of a sliding scale. These older sage gods, these wise wisdom gods can also be very nurturing, especially on a cold winter night. They can help you through this dark season. They're crafty. They have stories. And so they're kind of in that in-between father and sage kind of being, kind of energy. And it's hard for me to talk about the triple aspects of the God because they're so wrapped up in in being just the God.

Chelle: In one, the God.

Laylla: The God. And you can really see so much of all of them. It's just hard. It's hard to kind of separate them. But but you can.

Chelle: I do feel I do feel the distinction is a little bit easier with the Goddess. I don't know if it's because being a female and living kind of that maiden, mother, crone aspects of life. But I I do kind of I kind of equate the same thing to the God. You got the young, you know, late teens, early 20s, then you go to the middle-aged, and then you go to the wise, old, crone, man version. You know, it's it kind of almost just follows those phases of life, just as like I think of the Goddess phases is almost following the phases of life.

Laylla: And it really does. But I guess for me, I'm going to borrow one of your phrases. Maybe I'm weird, but we already know this is true. But when I was a kid, I felt so old. I was one of those people that they said, "Oh, you're so you're such an old soul." You're an old soul. And, you know, now that I'm physically older, I'm older than you, and you say you're old as dirt all the time, but I don't feel old. I feel weird.

Chelle: The old the older we get, the younger we get.

Laylla: Right? I get it.

Chelle: It's like a Gen X curse.

Laylla: There you go. This maybe that's what it is. I don't know. But it's just easy to see the blend. And it's just more proof that people, like the gods, are rarely just on one part of that Wheel of the Year. We are young and wise, old and ready to start new things. We can be more than one thing at a time, and so can the gods. And I love that. I think when I'm doing spellwork, I do call them out for specific characteristics. If I'm working with a deity or asking, petitioning a deity for something, asking for their help in a working, I do call upon them in a specific way with specific characteristics that would fit into like a youthful or a mature or a sage-type aspect.

Chelle: To kind of almost back you up, I do kind of, and I don't know why it's with some deities and not with others, it's weird with me, I am a weirdo. But with certain deities, it's almost like, I'll use Hecate for an example because it's easy for me. And and you know this about me, I have seen Hecate as that young, I've seen Hecate as kind of that my age, middle-aged, and I've seen Hecate as the old crone. And I see Cernunnos sometimes the same way. I can see Cernunnos in every different aspect. But, you know, somebody like Odin, I'm not looking at Odin as a fucking youthful god. Oh my god, he'd blow my ass, you know?

Laylla: But you could see him as the father and the sage.

Chelle: Right, right.

Laylla: Right. But you're right, I would never see him as the youth.

Chelle: But do you see how there's some deities you can see all three aspects in, but then there's certain deities that you only see in like one, maybe two?

Laylla: Yes, yes. Like say Ostara, I don't think I would see her as the crone.

Chelle: Right, that'd be a hard visualization.

Laylla: That would be very hard. So I don't see them all with all three aspects as much as say Cernunnos. Easily, I can see all three there. Or I know that Hecate's not a triple goddess, so much so that she is a triumvirate.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: She's not the maiden, mother, crone in one, but she can be the maiden, she can be the mother, she can be the crone, just like Cernunnos. So yeah, not all not all deities can I see all.

Chelle: But but for some it does it does work with, and I think it works with Cernunnos.

Laylla: Yeah, the Green Man, Pan, Cernunnos, it's very easy to see a lot of those. A lot of the Welsh deities, I think they can kind of span a lot of that.

Chelle: Across the spectrum of the aspect.

Laylla: Yeah, the Celtic, the Welsh, they they really do kind of they're young, they're old, depending on the story. They're changing their ages. So, yeah, okay. Yeah, that fit.

Chelle: Maybe we're the Welsh this week.

Laylla: There you go. That's pretty much what they did in those myths. They're like, "Hey, I want to be young and beautiful today."

Chelle: They're Gen X, too.

Laylla: Hey, Loki did it, too. And Loki from more of the Norse pantheon, Loki can be any age, and he can be any gender. And so that's something to consider as well. Gods can be all these different things. So when you're working with the father aspect, I guess it's just like anything, you want to define your intention, right? Why are you working with this deity in this particular aspect? What types of father, warrior qualities are you looking for, and then you would decide this is the deity that matches and these are the aspects that I'll be working with. Yeah.

Chelle: No, I I think we've Green Manned and Cernunnosed them to death. So next week, we're going to talk about the sage.

Laylla: Thank you so much for listening to this episode of Back on the Broomstick. We really appreciate you guys. And my goodness, thank you for continuing to send us the cards, the letters, the gifts in our PO box. It has been a lot of fun, and we really appreciate it. We're going to be doing a Solaria with some book reviews and a mailbox review again.

Chelle: Now, just as a reminder, Back on the Broomstick, PO Box 106, Salem, Massachusetts, 01970. We love mail. I love getting it. I love opening it, texting Laylla the pictures of it and us squealing like we're four-year-olds on Christmas morning, Yule morning, birthday morning.

Laylla: Yeah, it's like it's our birthday every day when Chelle goes and opens the mailbox. It's fantastic. We appreciate all that. And we're also very happy that Federica, our wonderful wizard of winner of our Season of the Witch giveaway, got her lovely gift despite all the gremlins in the US Postal Service. And she sent us pictures.

Chelle: Oh, maybe she can get pictures of the Green Man over there.

Laylla: Maybe, fingers crossed. That would be very cool. So thank you all so much for sending in all the different spooky places. We have quite the list now. I'm very much trying to get Chelle to go to as many of them as we possibly can now.

Chelle: We totally need an RV. Totally, Laylla.

Laylla: We really do. One of these days, we will definitely have one. Next week we will be coming back with the third installment of our God series on the Sage.

Laylla: And if you're interested in a bag of dicks, send us a message and I'll see if I can hook you up. On that note, be wise, be wicked.

Chelle: Damn it, keep it witchy.
