Welcome to Back on the Broomstick, a modern witches' spoken word grimoire, where two witchy friends from way back are reconnecting to their pagan roots after a long period of mundanity. We're rewalking the path of the wise and trying out all the latest spells, rituals, and magical theory in today's witchcraft and pagan practices. So grab your wand and your incense, your cauldron and your crystals, and join us as we get back on the broomstick.

Laylla: Hi, and welcome to Back on the Broomstick. I'm Laylla, and this is the third installment of our seven-part series on deity. This episode, we'll be discussing the Sage aspect of the God, the Elder God, the Wise One, the God of Death and the dark half of the year.

Chelle: And I'm Chelle, and before we get started, Laylla has an email that she says that I must hear. So, out of the fact that I I don't I don't have a lot of patience and I don't wait well, we're going to jump right into this email because I need to know what it's about and why I need to hear it.

Laylla: Well, that sounds like a perfect way to start this episode. This was written by one of our listeners in regards to, I believe it was the Father God. And the title of this is "No Palm and Coconut Needed." In that episode, we were talking about the different aspects of the God, the Oak King and the Holly King. And a few listeners had mentioned that those plants didn't resonate with them, that their seasons, that their environment, their climate did not allow for an Oak King or Holly King. And so what could they do instead? And we had some really good ideas, I thought. And one of the ones—

Chelle: I thought we did.

Laylla: Yeah. And one of the things that you said, Chelle, slightly tongue-in-cheek, but also very seriously, was to look at your local plants. And you talked about Hawaii, which is one of your favorite places. And you mentioned uh the coconuts and palm trees, and maybe use something like that, right?

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: So this lovely person, I'm just going to use their initials, KJ. KJ wrote to us, and she lives in Hawaii. And she loved the whole episode and says that uh she's going to get a little bit of God in her life because she's been working with the Goddess a lot.

Chelle: Uh-huh.

Laylla: And after listening to our episode, she agrees she needs a little bit of balance. And she says she needs a little drive and some big dick energy in her life right now, so. So we feel that. But here's the part I wanted you to hear. She says, "Chelle, you said if you were in Hawaii, you would substitute the palm and coconut for the non-native trees. And you could do that. But Hawaiian lore already has an equivalent. As I'm sure you know, there are a handful of gods in the pantheon, but two in particular are relevant here. Ku, the fiery, aggressive God of war, politics, strife, and masculinity, and Lono, the peaceful God of agriculture, fresh water, and abundance. Each rules in his own time of the year." And I love this. I looked them up a little.

Chelle: I love this.

Laylla: And they are definitely a beautiful way to incorporate the witches' Wheel of the Year idea of the Oak King and the Holly King with local representations that fit with your climate.

Chelle: I love that.

Laylla: Yeah, isn't that fantastic?

Chelle: Oh, I love that so much.

Laylla: So their stories are very interesting. And right now is the season of Lono. Now, KJ says that she's not Hawaiian, although she lives there, so she says, "You know, take this all with a little grain of salt." She's just repeating what she has learned. But she says that right now they're in Makahiki, which is the rainy season, and that's Lono's season. So right now, it's Lono's time of year.

Chelle: I love that.

Laylla: Yeah, and actually, during Lono's time of year, he's more like the young god, like the Oak King, I would say, the growing things, right?

Chelle: Uh-huh.

Laylla: And during his time of year, war was actually prohibited.

Chelle: Really?

Laylla: Yeah, it was a time for people to come together in peace. And they could make tributes. She says they would, quote, "come together to make tributes to Lono, play games, and do sports, and suspend some of the usual social rules." And this lasted from about October to February.

Chelle: No, I was just going to say, I I love a lot of that tradition, um, and I think it is it is a prime example of no matter what mythos you follow, no matter what culture that interests you, you're going to find the same concepts everywhere, just with a different name, perhaps.

Laylla: These concepts are are universal. These are archetypes that we all go through because it's not that Gardner and Murray and all these people came up with Wicca and just invented it for fun. These are all universal ideas of our life. It's archetypes of who we are and how we live and and how we want to show up in the world. And so it really represents us as well as the cycle of seasons. And you will find us in the seasons everywhere you go. So fitting it to you and your culture and your local area is very, very important.

Chelle: I love that. I love that so much. What a great example.

Laylla: I have another one for you.

Chelle: Okay.

Laylla: So this one was from a comment on our YouTube. And it was actually something I had been thinking about quite a bit. So they literally got a whole essay because I'd been thinking about doing an update on this. But um, this was on the Young God, the first episode in the series. This person is Brookny_doe, and they said on our YouTube, "In my Baltic culture, the sun is a goddess and the moon is a god. So as a secular witch, it's hard for me to connect with the moon because seeing Western content, I see the femininity. But then the disconnect happens when I remember it's a male figure in my folklore. He has phases because he cheated on the sun and was judged and punished by the thunder/justice god." Interesting story. She says, "Not sure how to work with that." So my essay was basically repeating a little bit what we had kind of talked about in the last episode here. And that was really what we just said about, you know, the Hawaiian gods. It's okay to flip that and substitute it. The cycles of the moon can have that be a masculine cycle. It doesn't have to be feminine.

Chelle: But I I can see from this person's perspective, especially, how it can be a little more difficult because everything you read is telling you the exact opposite. Every every knowledge source is telling you the opposite unless it is directly related to your culture. So that I can see where that would be difficult. But I think it's just a matter of how you compartmentalize it in your head. You know what I mean?

Laylla: Yeah, and I know this is a different example. This isn't quite the same weight as deity. But I'm going to compare it to you and I with our suit of tarot cards. For us, swords are fire.

Chelle: Wands are air, and swords are fire.

Laylla: Right. That's right. Exactly. Wands are air and swords are fire. And depending on your belief system, it's one or the other. But a lot of traditional tarot information goes with swords air, wands fire, which is opposite to how we believe.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: So what I do, and I think you do too, Chelle, is we just kind of substitute in our minds how that works.

Chelle: Right, right.

Laylla: And because I'm very comfortable in my theory of working, in how it works for me, I've worked with this system, I've journaled this system, I've I've read with this system, I've studied this system my way and found how well it works for me, so I'm comfortable in it. So it's okay to hear someone else's version and kind of flip that a little bit.

Chelle: Yeah, it's kind of just how you you turn it around in your head. I I wouldn't shy away from doing that.

Laylla: Right.

Chelle: Going back to the Hawaiian mythos, you know, if you're reading stuff about the Oak King and the Holly King, just in your mind be thinking of the other two deity.

Laylla: Ku and Lono.

Chelle: That are relevant to you, yeah. And, you know, think of that same storyline and that same plotline, but with your deity.

Laylla: Exactly. And I think this gives you a much richer pool to pull from. Having your own mythos, having a familiar, cultural, local, family mythos that's different than the commonly accepted one, in my mind, doesn't so much clash as give you more. It gives you more to draw from. These analogies, like we found out with Ku and Lono fitting with the Oak King and the Holly King, the god Mēness, I apologize if I'm saying that wrong, in the Baltic culture, Mēness is the moon god. You can see him growing in strength as the moon grows in strength. And then he has a young phase, and he has a new phase of the old god, the death part of the god. So it still follows that cycle. You can still see the similarities in the themes, even if the genders are swapped.

Chelle: Exactly. So it's just kind of how how you flop that in your head to suit your belief system.

Laylla: Yeah, and just add to it. Maybe sometimes the moon is feminine to you. Maybe sometimes the moon is masculine to you. That's okay. Just do what's working for you in that moment where you feel that magic.

Chelle: Maybe that changes for you. Maybe, you know, in the beginning of the year, you're feeling that masculine moon energy, but towards the latter half of the year, you're feeling that feminine moon energy. Do what feels right to you.

Laylla: And study it. Work with it. What I recommended to the YouTube listener was to follow—

Chelle: You you recommended them to journal it. I know you did.

Laylla: I was going to try and not use that word, but yeah. The way I was going to phrase it without saying journaling was that they should follow a year-long cycle. Follow a year of moon cycles as a god. So every month, you will honor that god in all of his phases, and do that for a year, a whole year of lunar cycles. And then worship the goddess as the sun in that seasonal, year-long, light and dark solar phase, that solar cycle. So you have to really do it for a year. You have to commit. You can't just—well, you could, but—

Chelle: Half-ass it.

Laylla: Yeah, you shouldn't just half-ass it. You should go into it expecting to do this whole cycle for at least a year. Experience it for a year in that aspect and see how that feels. See what works best and works for you.

Chelle: I like that concept a lot, and it actually it almost makes me want want to make that commitment. I'm just not there right quite yet, maybe next year. Um, but just because I'm so used to the opposite concept, to just experience that. I've never delved into the aspect of the goddess in the sun, and that now that someone's pointed it out to me, I'm like, "Huh, that's intriguing. Now I feel like I need to go down that rabbit hole."

Laylla: The other thing you can do is maybe for a whole year cycle, maybe you want to worship a sun god and a moon god. Maybe you want to worship a sun goddess and a moon goddess as opposites for the year. Because we are all everything. There is masculine and feminine in everything. So you can find that balance, even if you're working with two goddesses or two gods. It doesn't have to be exact opposites. You can still find that balance in goddess or in god.

Chelle: And it also doesn't have to be the way someone else wrote it in a book.

Laylla: Exactly. Exactly. Your lived experience is the most important thing when you are forming a personal relationship with deity. So, that being said, let's talk about the sky daddy, the big father figure with the white beard in the clouds, the Sage God. I like how you start that out with sky daddy. Well, they all are, right? When you think old god, they're all like some white-bearded dude up in the sky. You've got Zeus with the lightning bolt. You've got—

Chelle: You got Odin.

Laylla: Odin, the patch, the white beard. Who else? You've got Yahweh, the Christian God. He's white beard up in the cloud, right?

Chelle: Santa, he's up north. He's white beard up north.

Laylla: You know, I think Santa has almost reached that level of deity. I really do.

Chelle: I really do too. I would vote for that. I would vote for that.

Laylla: Folklore and egregore kind of all meld together. I think an argument could be made for that. All right, I'll allow it.

Chelle: Thank you. Thank you.

Laylla: Motion passes.

Chelle: When I think of this phase of the God, the stage of the God, those are all the things that immediately come to mind, you know, that older, wiser, life-lived person, you know, full of knowledge, full of experience, ready to kind of show you the way, whether you want to listen or not.

Laylla: This is the grandfather. This is the teller of tales, the one who has the wisdom, the knowledge, the stories, the teacher, the sage.

Chelle: But I also get visions of the hermit, too.

Laylla: Oh, gosh, yes. And also, he's the God of the Dead. He's the one who is there when the summer god is cut down. He guides you to the land of the dead. He's Anubis. He's Hades. He's Osiris, the God of the Afterlife. He's Shiva, life and death, right?

Chelle: The reaper of sorts.

Laylla: There you go. Yeah, he's all those things. So he's like the kindly grandpa that's going to tell you stories and bounce you on his knee, and he's the reaper of death, so.

Chelle: A little bit of everything.

Laylla: Yeah, yeah.

Chelle: But I also I also when I think of that phase of the God, I think of a deep sense of knowledge or a source of deep knowledge on a different level than the first two phases. And I would say the same thing about the Crone. It's that wise grandparent, you know, who's who's seen it all, done it all, knows it all, and and all you have to do is pick their brain to get it, kind of person, kind of entity.

Laylla: Yeah, and we've talked a lot with the God about different parts of the wheel as, you know, different segments is kind of a big slide. It's not really well-defined sections. And and Odin kind of falls into that. When we're talking about the Sage God, on the younger father warrior god side, he's that fiery Odin the Conqueror, right? He goes around, he's the fighter, he's the warrior, he's bloodthirsty. But then when he's more towards the Sage God side, he's wise. He's sacrificing to bring language and runes to people. He's wisdom and learning and knowledge. So that's kind of like the two sides there of Odin on that scale.

Chelle: And I think even further, if you go further on the old god side of the Sage God's side, like how many of us have a grandfather who's a goofy little kid?

Laylla: Right? Who's cracking dumb jokes and being super silly? That's because he's that close to the young god, to the youth god. As that sage, he is also on that end right next to the brand new baby god. He is also really close to being that one. So that young god again. So he's, you know, sometimes silly.

Chelle: But I also see see this aspect as kind of—the youth and the and the father aspect of the God were kind of boisterous and outgoing and out and with the father god, you get that sense of work and and work ethic. With this stage, I kind of get that more turning inward, self-reflective, kind of that reflecting on experience past and how to kind of turn that into some eternal wisdom, I guess.

Laylla: The wisdom of the ancestors. And just like the God reflects us, his story is the solar story, most of the time. His story is the solar story of the Wheel of the Year. So we are now in the dark half of the year, and we feel it right now. The God is alone right now. We know we're in the dark half, and this is the time when we say, "Go within, reflect, look for that wisdom." And he's right there.

Chelle: And we talk a lot about Persephone this time of year, but sometimes we fail to remember Hades this time of year.

Laylla: Hades is right there walking with you.

Chelle: Yep.

Laylla: He's kind. He's going to walk you through this season of death. He's going to tell you to reflect. What do you want to let go of? What do you want to bury in the cold and the dark so that it grows in the spring? And he has the wisdom to help you make those decisions.

Chelle: And as much as as there is that that loving, caring aspect, he still is walking you through the season of death, regardless of whether you like it or not. Here we go.

Laylla: Yeah, exactly. And and he's going to point things out to you bluntly and coldly. Your grandfather doesn't have time for you to guess or to sort through the riddles. A lot of times, he's going to be very blunt. If someone's going to tell you the truth, it's going to be your grandpa.

Chelle: You know, if you're messing up, Grandpa's going to let you know.

Laylla: But I think I think it it's more in like a reflective kind of way, in a—

Chelle: Teaching.

Laylla: Learn lessons from actions past, you know. "Hey, I did this and this, and the result was this. Is that what I wanted? You know, what's the lesson here?"

Laylla: Learn from my mistakes.

Chelle: Yeah, taking experiences had and turn them into lessons learned.

Laylla: I love that. I love that. Yeah, learn learn from my mistakes. Learn from my wisdom.

Chelle: Where the other two aspects of the God aren't quite thinking that far ahead yet.

Laylla: Right. No, they have other immediate concerns.

Chelle: Other priorities, right.

Laylla: Yeah, other things taking their attention, whereas the Sage God, his whole priority is reflection and knowledge and, you know, reflecting forward and back and handing off that information and sharing that knowledge. He is still a protector, more in the sense of he wants to protect what he has earned. He wants to help you protect what you have grown. He wants to help you continue forward. His job, even as a reaper of souls, is to help life move forward. You can't have new life if you don't have death. So even in that aspect, he is still trying to help you move forward by by shedding what no longer serves you, by letting go of things whose time has passed. That's an important part of growth and of life. And so in that aspect, he is still helping you grow.

Chelle: I think with this aspect of of the God, it's more about what are you learning along the way. It's more about kind of the journey than the destination. What are you learning step by step by step, and how are you either using that to to move forward and grow or learn a lesson from it to move forward and grow? You know, what are you what are you doing as you go is more important than how you end up at the end. The process is important, I think, with the Sage. The process is important.

Laylla: Yeah, the ends don't just justify the means. The means are just as important. It's a life lived well. If you are looking to work with deity, how do you know if a deity, a god, is calling to you? How would you know? How do you find a god to work with? Do you have any experiences with a deity reaching out to you?

Chelle: You know, I think it can be different for everyone. Sometimes it's just nothing turns into an obsession. You know, you're going about your day and living your life, and then all of a sudden, out of nowhere, everything is carrion. You know, you're seeing cauldrons everywhere. You're seeing statues everywhere. You're seeing, you know, cauldron representation everywhere. You know, you feel like it's beating you in the face. Could be dreaming. You know, maybe maybe you're dreaming of a certain particular deity or aspect frequently. I mean, it could come up in cards in in tarot. I mean, there's there's a lot of ways you can find. With me, I found me personally, I find that it's almost like that beating of the head, you know, everywhere you turn, that's all you see.

Laylla: I think there's three different ways and what Chelle's describing is one of the very common ways, and that's where deity kind of chooses you, where all of a sudden you start seeing ravens everywhere and eye patches and books and words and runes start popping up and you're like, "Gee, I wonder what all those symbols could mean." And so you look into it and you're like, "Oh, those are all associated with Odin." And then that feels right, so you start working with the deity that's reaching out to you that way. Frequency bias will happen when your brain, for whatever reason, whether it's because a deity is asking you to pay attention or you need something in your life, your brain is latching on to all these signs and symbols to give you a message. In this case,

Chelle: Smack you in the head.

Laylla: That's right. Someone wants your attention. And so that is one way. The other way is your choice. You are interested in that deity, in that culture, in something about that pantheon. You just have an interest, and so you dedicate yourself or you do that research and that study. Perfectly valid.

Chelle: We've talked about that in a previous episode, um, where back in in our old coven days, we all did that. Each person took on a a different deity that they were not accustomed to, and I talked about taking on Pele, um, and that experience. And that that was a equally wonderful experience that I sought out. Pele did not seek me out. I sought her out and created that relationship over that period of time. You know, whatever works for you. They're they're both equally valid and wonderful. It's just are you getting hit in the head or are you knocking on the door?

Laylla: That's right. That's exactly right. And the third way is you you touched on it a little bit, Chelle. In our old coven, one of our ways of learning was each member would dedicate themselves for a year and a day to learning about a god and a goddess. And some people did that every year. Some people just did it a couple times. But that was one of our requirements is that you you took on that challenge. You took on that require- not burden. What's another good word for burden? You took on that oath. You took on that, um,

Chelle: You took on that responsibility to expand your knowledge and understanding of different deities other than what maybe you initially chose or initially were comfortable with. It was a way to make us kind of expand deity knowledge.

Laylla: And so that's a tradition requirement. Now, ours was any deity. We didn't have a specific pantheon you had to work with. But say, right now, Chelle, you are in a particular tradition.

Chelle: Correct.

Laylla: It's a Welsh traditional coven, so you are learning about Welsh deities.

Chelle: Correct.

Laylla: So that is a requirement. So those are typically the three ways is your tradition requires it, you are called by that deity, or you choose a deity. And all of those are perfectly valid.

Chelle: Absolutely valid.

Laylla: And in any of those, you may find a deity that you will work with for the rest of your life. Chelle and Hecate.

Chelle: Don't talk about our relationship like that.

Laylla: That's right. Now, for me, the two gods in particular that called me and that I still work with are Cernunnos and Ganesha.

Chelle: I would have said Lilith for you.

Laylla: Lilith I worked with for a time, for a very long time, and she's still a very important part of my work, and I still have great respect for Lilith. But she was someone, she was an entity I worked with mostly for a need. And I think that was a mutual calling for that one. But she's not someone like I'm kind of glad I'm not still fully working with Lilith.

Chelle: Shh, don't say that too loud.

Laylla: I know. She's still on my altar. Don't get me wrong. She is still very prominently on my altar. I still definitely work with her, but I wouldn't say she's like a main deity any longer, which is fine. That happens. But Cernunnos and Ganesha have been there from the very, very beginning. So what are some ways that you have worked with a god? Like how do you worship? If you're you were going to approach a god or either a god that you work with or a god that you'd like to work with, how are some ways that you would worship a god?

Chelle: You know, I have always kind of seen the god and, as a lot of folks do, struggle a little bit with the god aspect. So I've really kind of focused on that Cernunnos god and have kind of, in my own way, seen Cernunnos as all three aspects.

Laylla: That's very easy to do. Even if you see him as the generic Horned God, if you just say the Horned God of witches, he's very accessible. We've said before, he's one of the first gods that people come to in witchcraft. He can be very all-encompassing, and he can be all you need, really. You know, you don't need any more than the Horned God. He, like you just said, he encompasses all of the aspects.

Chelle: But I I have a certain view of Cernunnos, and there was a a point in time where I kind of needed to work with like a more stern, grandfatherly figure as opposed to the warm and caring grandfatherly figure, you know what I'm saying? And I decided that I needed to work with Odin because I needed a little more firmness than I felt that I would get from Cernunnos. So I went and I sought out a connection with Odin for that. But I do think that sometimes it is harder to connect with the god. That could be preconceived bias. I I don't know what it is. So really, I only sometimes can think of the god in those two aspects because, again, I was compelled to make a connection with Odin at one point, and I've always felt that Cernunnos was that all-encompassing god in my in my view. I see him as those three aspects.

Laylla: Cernunnos was the very first god that ever showed up for me. I mean, I've always been a child of the woods. That's pretty much all I would do is disappear into the woods, be gone, and not come back out until the weekend was over. But being in the woods is my safe place, my happy place, and it's very easy to feel connection to the land and to the energies there. And so that's where I first encountered Cernunnos in many of his forms because he's so easy to connect with as a forest spirit and forest energy.

Chelle: And you know, it's funny you say that because I was talking to my sweet darling love earlier this week. I felt like I had a Cernunnos sighting. You know, we have listener in the wild sightings, we have Chelle sightings, we have had a Cernunnos sighting this week. And and being from a woodsy area, you get this, you know, upstate New York, very deer populated. And we don't see a lot of deer out here on the coast of Massachusetts, at least in the time I've been here, we don't. And the other day, we were driving down the road in a relatively not super populated, it was country as far as Massachusetts thinks. Right. Like, this isn't country, folks. But in their mind,

Laylla: Just means there's half a mile between each McMansion.

Chelle: No, they're they're still like 40 feet apart. But they call it country. So, um, I won't name the town. So we were driving in in the quote-unquote country here, and all of a sudden, out of nowhere, like literally like three feet next to the road was a ten-point buck. And like, you don't see that shit around here. And like, I swear, you know, you're driving by and you know how it is when like all of a sudden there's a deer there, you can't really slow down, but you're like, "Oh, shit." I feel like this deer and I literally made eye contact. Have you ever felt like that? That you literally make eye contact? I just I almost texted you, too, because I'm like, "I just feel like I had a Cernunnos sighting." Like, I just felt like that was an embodiment of Cernunnos, and somehow I needed to see that.

Laylla: I would 100% say that that's exactly what happened. You know, when you have that deep of a feeling, especially when something's out of the ordinary like that, and it strikes you, that's in my mind, that's a magical moment. And so now it's your job to figure out why.

Chelle: Why?

Laylla: Why did Cernunnos make eye contact? What was the purpose? But you discerned that that was sent to you. You could feel that in that moment.

Chelle: And it literally was in that moment. It wasn't like something you ponder. You know, it's like you make eye contact and you're like, "Whoa." Like, that hits your soul. That is Cernunnos on the side of the road I just drove by. Like, it's like an instant, you know this, you feel it. It's not, "I just saw some random deer driving down the road." Like you said, it's striking to you.

Laylla: Yeah. Definitely feels different. Now, if you have a moment like that, if you have a god that's reaching out to you for one reason or another, especially if you don't know why, Chelle knows that it's a reason. She doesn't yet know why. Maybe she's got some inklings that she's not sharing with us, but she knows there's a reason.

Chelle: Well, I I also can say, I'll just add this little tidbit. The last time I went back to New York about four or five weeks ago, the same damn thing happened in New York. I made eye contact with a deer. So it's not the first time. It's just weird that it happened here, but it's happened twice now.

Laylla: Well, it happened there because, as we both know, Chelle, if you ignore the signs that you're given, they get bigger and bigger until you pay attention.

Chelle: That fucking buck followed me to Massachusetts.

Laylla: He did. If you have a sign like that, your job as a witch is now to research that. Why? Look for Cernunnos. And just like when you're trying to interpret a dream, you need to kind of push and prod at your feelings. What was I feeling? What happened? What emotions went through me? What was my first thought? When I recreate the moment, what's the first connection that I make in my brain? Write these things down because they're very important. Interpreting signs, just like interpreting dreams, is extremely personal. Your own biases, thoughts, ideas, connections are going to be very, very different than someone else's. So people can give you a general idea of what archetypes mean. We can generally tell you that buck was probably Cernunnos.

Chelle: But only you know your message. And you know, I bust your ass all the time about journaling. I really do. But you're not wrong. You know, these are things that you kind of because, like you said, it's not something that you can go and find an an interpretation in a book. What does it mean when I see a ten-point buck in a weird location? You know, like that ain't coming up in a book. Like, these are things that you kind of have to, I don't even want to say these words, journal it out. Journal it out. You know you do. You do because it's you're you're writing your own book. You're you're writing your own your own correspondence tables. You know, some things you can't get out of a book, and this is a perfect example.

Laylla: Yeah, this is the perfect Book of Shadows grimoire moment.

Chelle: Exactly.

Laylla: Set up an altar. For me, I set mine up to Odin because he had said, "We're working together." So,

Chelle: Oh, we are, are we?

Laylla: That's right. For Chelle, it's Cernunnos. Maybe she'll put antlers. Maybe she'll put representations of Cernunnos. Maybe it'll be something that represents a pathway or a forest.

Chelle: I actually do have a Cernunnos statue, so.

Laylla: Exactly. You know, for me, it was ravens. It was writing out the runes. It was more journaling. It was reading. But it was also, I took a black cloth, made like a like a headband, like a strip of cloth, and put it down over one eye, like I was covering one eye with a bandage when I would meditate for Odin. And I kept that strip of cloth on the altar that I had created while I was working with and researching Odin.

Chelle: Ooh.

Laylla: Yeah, these are things you could do. Find representations. Find things that evoke the feeling of the deity you think is reaching out to you, and then work with it. Meditate with it. Look up their culture. Look up their mythology. What type of offerings do they like? What type of rituals and stories do they like? And then start.

Chelle: Oh my god, funny story. My best friend, Laylla, gave me deer antlers this summer. So weird. I wonder if that was a sign.

Laylla: Actually, now that I think about it, I'm like, "Wow, that kind of adds to the pile." Maybe it is a sign. I'm going to make a quick left turn, but it's related, I promise. I did give you deer antlers this summer. I've actually given out a couple different pairs of deer antlers because my father is a very prolific hunter. He loves his land, and he does love to hunt, but he's always been very, very respectful of nature. He's a very conscientious hunter. And this is something that he, I would say it's basically his life. He's it's very important to him. And he doesn't really identify as a pagan or a Christian, but he does say that the land is sacred.

Chelle: Oh, he worships the land. I don't care what he says. I know this man.

Laylla: He really does. Every time he hunts deer or any animal, it's it's important to him to do it the right way and to do it respectfully. And he has been doing this his whole life, and he's over 70 now. And he has kept quite a few of the antlers and things that he has hunted. And I just recently came into possession of a very large amount of them. And this type of energy, this type of god energy, this is my father from a young man to a father, middle-aged man, to now as a grandfather, a sage. I have antlers from deer that he has hunted as the huntsman, the god of the wood, his whole life. And he wrote on each of these antlers. You'll see if you look on the back of the antlers I gave you, there's a date. There's a year and a name, and in some cases, a place of where it was hunted. He knows the stories behind every single one of those pairs of antlers. So when I give someone antlers, these are imbued with the energy of the god. This is a person's life, his whole life living, walking the paths of the woods as a huntsman, as a provider, as someone who tends to the life of the land. That's powerful. That's god energy right there. So in each of these sets of antlers that I have been gifting to people, it's almost like I'm gifting Cernunnos. You know, the essence of the wood to people. And that's because we are gods. We are god. We are goddess. Our lives follow the same cycles of deity, and there's power in that. So anyway, that's my side tangent is that I have all these wonderful, amazing antlers, but I think that they're they're very special to me, and I do love giving them to people because I do feel like I'm sharing a little piece of that magic, of that forest magic with people. That god energy.

Chelle: I love that. I love that, and I love my antlers, and I treasure them. I treasure them. You know, I I I feel like I have to mention this just because of the deer sighting and the antlers. We did start working with and invoke Elen of the Ways earlier this year, another antlered deity and

Laylla: Forest walking, path walking, liminal spaces deity, yeah.

Chelle: You know, I think sometimes things these signs can come in pairs, you know. I I do think that Cernunnos is calling, and I think that sometimes because I do struggle a little bit with that god energy, maybe that's why we ended up doing that whole thing with Elen of the Ways. Maybe I needed that horned goddess to kind of come to the forefront to be like, "Okay, you can it's okay to work with the horned god. You'll be fine, girl. You'll be fine." This is just me kind of talking through it, but sometimes you just got to talk through the signs and put the signs together.

Laylla: I think that's fantastic. I mean, you and I both kind of found Elen of the Ways around the same time, and she's another kind of pieced together, reimagined goddess, but she feels so right. She feels so perfect. And as someone who has worshipped and worked with Cernunnos for so long, Elen of the Ways feels almost feels like coming home to me because Cernunnos, that horned god, is so important to me. I love seeing a horned goddess that has the same place, you know, because, you know, that's that balance. It's that, you know, I have a lot of god energy in me, and so I like to see that reflected in my deity. And so I think she's fantastic.

Chelle: They're they're like natural consorts to each other. Totally reminds me of you and your husband, just saying.

Laylla: Aw. Yeah, actually, I see that, too.

Chelle: So, I think when, you know, circling back to to the sage god and and that that elder aspect of the god, he is going to present himself to you in the manner in which he feels you need to see him and work with him in. But when working with that aspect of the god, remember to take the stance of soak it all in, take it all in, learn what you can. This is this is that knowledge-imparting grandpa that just wants to tell you every story from every adventure and experience they've ever had, and it is your duty to soak it all in and take that wisdom and impart it on your life.

Laylla: And I like how you said duty because it kind of is. I mean, these are deities. However you look at the aspect, whether you look at them as individuals or you look at them of reflections of ourselves or aspects of a greater power, however you view them, it's still deity. And so approaching them with reverence and respect and with with that sense of duty and honor, I think, is vital. So when you do work with them, if you are doing a ritual, do it with respect. Do it with great respect. This would be the time, especially in the beginning. I mean, I know you and Hecate at this point, me and Cernunnos at this point, it's just like, "Hey, let's go."

Chelle: Let's do this.

Laylla: "Let's do this thing." However, that's a relationship. You know, you don't start out with a relationship that way.

Chelle: It wasn't like that in the beginning, I promise you.

Laylla: No. With me working with Odin, I approached humbly and with great respect. I cast circle. I came about it reverently. I created an altar. I made

Chelle: Offerings.

Laylla: Offerings, learning. We stress this every time someone asks, but that is the best way to show your devotion to a deity is to learn everything you can about them from first-hand sources. Go to their culture. Go to people who grew up in that religion. Go to where that deity is from and learn as much as you possibly can about them. That is the best way to get started worshipping any deity.

Chelle: And if you can't go, um, you know,

Laylla: Well, I meant like go like mentally. I meant like get the books. I didn't mean like go to that place physically.

Chelle: Okay. Okay, I was going to say, I haven't been to Greece. We are pretty tight, and I haven't been to Greece.

Laylla: Yeah, I apologize. I worded that terribly. I just meant like get that information.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: Get that information. Learn it. Seek it.

Chelle: Seek it out. Seek it out. Seek it out. Seek out that connection as well. Because as with anything, witchcraft or not, practice makes perfect, I guess is the best way I can say it, you know. You you got to put the time in. You've got to you've got to put the learning in as well as the practicing. Like Laylla said, you've got to create that deity altar, set that that space aside where you are focused on worship, appreciation, you know, have out your offerings. Maybe you don't have antlers, you know, maybe it's Cernunnos and you don't have antlers, get a picture of antlers if that's what you got to do. Rip it out of a magazine, do whatever it takes, but create some little shrine, some little altar, and every day acknowledge it. That's probably my best first step to give people. Acknowledgement, frequent daily acknowledgement, it it gets you into that groove, it gets you into that building of connection, and then it kind of spirals from there.

Laylla: Talking about the daily connection and pictures got me thinking about working with Ganesha, because that's that's a common thing with Ganesha. Ganesha is the elephant-headed god in the uh he's a pan-Hindu god, and by that I mean that he's in Hinduism, but he's also in other cultures and religions as well. And he's the remover of obstacles. He is the child of Shiva and Parvati, and he represents resilience, wisdom, facing challenges. I would say he's somewhere like a father sage god, because of the intelligence there.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: But working with Ganesha, it's recommended that you have a representation of him. Something that you can honor and and put sweets in front of, uh decorate with oils or vermillion powder, um put flowers on. But it doesn't have to be a statue. It can be a picture, just like you said. If you get a picture out of a magazine, you draw a picture, you print out a picture, Ganesha's okay with that. He just wants you to have his beautiful image there, and to honor it, and to give offerings to it, and that's okay. Now, Hinduism, before anybody yells at me, Hinduism is not closed. Ganesha is not a closed practice in any way, shape, or form. Ganesha is for everyone. So don't worry about it if you do want to study Ganesha. But that's that's part of learning about deity, right, is finding these things out, learning this stuff. And that's not to say that you can't work with any deity that calls to you. Just make sure that you seek them out and seek their information out the right way. But working with Ganesha every day, there's prescribed rituals. You know, you come to him in a certain way. You come to him every day. You make offerings, you cover your head, you do a chant, and you'd pick a period of time where you do something like that for a god. It doesn't have to be to Ganesha where you do his his chant every single day at the same time or whatever, but pick something and make it a ritual and make it special.

Chelle: You could create your own ritual for deity if there isn't one that you can find or you are unaware of one. Create your own daily or weekly ritual to deity.

Laylla: Right, exactly. And then commit to it. For 30 days, 40 days, you know, pick a time period to give to that deity, to offer to them as a as a sacrifice of your time, to honor them. That's a great way to learn and to give energy to them as an offering.

Chelle: And to build connection.

Laylla: Oh, absolutely. And then before you know it, you'll be like, "Hey, Hecate, hop in the passenger seat. We got shit to do."

Chelle: Right. She'll be right there going, "Let's go." Right. Right.

Laylla: But you got to start somewhere. All right, so now that we have talked about the youth, the warrior, and the sage gods, coming up here in a couple weeks, we'll be returning to our seven-part series, and we'll be starting with the young goddess.

Chelle: Indeed.

Laylla: The maiden. That's right. But before we get there, we are going to have a special guest come on in the the next week. We hope you enjoy that, and we'll be coming right back to the series. Now, Chelle, we have a surprise.

Chelle: We do. It's true. Actually, we have two surprises.

Laylla: Two surprises. Why don't you tell them about the first one that's a repeat of something we did last year?

Chelle: So, you know how much I love, love, love, love to go find mail at the PO box.

Laylla: And we also know how much you love, love, love the Christmas season.

Chelle: I do love the Christmas season.

Laylla: How many trees are you going to have this year?

Chelle: Do we have to talk about this? Why are you shaming me for multiple trees? I just love ornaments. I love trees. I love ornaments. I love trees. I love ornaments.

Laylla: Yes, so we love the season, we love mail, so what are we doing, Chelle?

Chelle: All right, folks, it is it is approaching Yule, and we are going to bring back our Yule card exchange. So, if you weren't here with us last year or if you have forgotten because you smoke too much weed, this is the deal.

Laylla: Why are you calling me out now?

Chelle: You know, hey, it is what it is. So, you send us a Yule card, we will send you back a Yule card. And I had a lot of fun with this last year, and people sent us some beautiful, gorgeous, and sometimes bizarre Yule cards, and I loved every damn one of them.

Laylla: Loved them all.

Chelle: Every damn one of them.

Laylla: We read every single letter, and how fun. So much fun. And this year, we have designed our very own Yule cards, so you'll be getting a Laylla and Chelle designed card.

Chelle: You know, last year I actually kind of laughed because, so, Helen Jojo, we love you. She sent us She sent us the same card we sent her back. We happened to get the same cards. It was hysterical, but I loved it.

Laylla: Great minds. Great witchy minds think alike.

Chelle: So this year, this year we have designed our own card, and again, if you have forgotten, we are at Back on the Broomstick, PO Box 106, Salem, Massachusetts, 01970. What's our second secret? What's our second secret?

Laylla: Due to popular demand, our second secret is, drum roll, please. We've opened an Etsy shop.

Chelle: No shit.

Laylla: No shit. We have Back on the Broomstick merch. Right now, we've got t-shirts, sweatshirts, bags, and even Yule ornaments, and I think there might be a journal or two.

Chelle: You know it's because I love ornaments more than anything, and of course there's a journal. How could there not be a journal? It would only make sense for there to be a damn journal.

Laylla: That's right. Now, all of this was designed by us. All of this is on Etsy, etsy.com/shop/backonthebroomstick. Check it out, see what we've got, let us know what you like, what we don't have that you would like us to put in there. But yeah, we've we've got an Etsy shop.

Chelle: This is big. This is big.

Laylla: Yeah, I think so.

Chelle: We have We have hoodies.

Laylla: I already got a hoodie, and I have to say, I am so in love with this hoodie. It's fantastic. I just love it. I can't wait to put up pictures. It's amazing.

Chelle: It's gorgeous. It's gorgeous.

Laylla: So go check it out.

Chelle: Laylla's going to post links, and there'll be links on our website, but, you know, just give us some feedback, let us know. And I think most importantly, let us know what you would like. What kind of merch would you like? Tell us. Email us. Send us a DM.

Laylla: Yes, send us. We love to hear it. So, hopefully you guys can stop over there and get yourself a cool sweatshirt or bag or journal for when you're working with the god.

Chelle: No, they want ornaments. They don't want journals.

Laylla: Well, maybe they want both. I don't know. But we're very much looking forward to seeing all of your wonderful Yule cards this year, and also looking forward to licking a lot of stamps. So send them on in, and we'll send you one back. So while you're getting your cards and getting ready to run out to the mailbox for us, stay tuned for next week, and be wise, be wicked,

Chelle: and keep it witchy.

Laylla: Dun dun dun. The end.
