Laylla: Welcome to Back on the Broomstick, a modern witches' spoken word grimoire, where two witchy friends from way back are reconnecting to their pagan roots after a long period of mundanity. We're rewalking the path of the wise and trying out all the latest spells, rituals, and magical theory in today's witchcraft and pagan practices. So grab your wand and your incense, your cauldron and your crystals, and join us as we get back on the broomstick.

Laylla: Hi, and welcome to Back on the Broomstick. I'm Laylla, and on this episode, Chelle and I are sitting down with a witch who is one of the founders and elders of the Assembly of the Sacred Wheel. He's a teacher, a queer activist, and an author. Many of you know him as the anchor author for the 12-book Witches' Sun Sign Series. And just recently, his book Spirit Speak: A Comprehensive Guide to Connect Beyond the Veil, was re-released in an expanded version.

Chelle: And I'm Chelle, and today we have Ivo Dominguez Jr. As Laylla said, a very prolific pagan founder of many things. Welcome. We are so glad you are here today.

Ivo: I'm really delighted to be here, honestly. I love talking to people, and this is my favorite thing to do.

Chelle: I really, I can't help but dive into my very first question, Ivo. And that is, what is it about this new version that I should focus, the readers should focus, the listeners should focus on that is different and most poignant that you added from the first version that was from 2008?

Ivo: There's an entire new chapter on plant spirits.

Chelle: I read that one first. Laylla's favorite.

Ivo: And honestly, it was a bit of a push to get it into the book because when they said, "Hey, we'd like to re-issue it, and you can tidy it up a little bit." I said, "Well, I want to do more than a tidy up. I'd like to add a significant chunk." And I think there was like about 12,000 words more total. And a lot of it is just little changes in each of the chapters. But I had originally wanted that chapter in there in the first version of the book. And the previous publisher was New Page, and they had a cap on, "This is how many words the book will be, period." And that's true for most publishers. And that was one of the chapters that didn't, that didn't stay in. So that is like a special thing for me that it's back in there, something I wish had always been there. Beyond that, I separated the section into a separate chapter on the technique that we use for aspecting, our form of divine embodiment, because I wanted to have that be more stand-alone. And also, I added things to that so that it would be more possible for people to attempt to do it on their own or with some friends working through the book. Because that's the sort of thing that has become less common to be done safely and effectively because there are fewer organized groups in which people can train relative to the size of the population of people that are interested. So really, that split-off chapter and the brand new plant spirit, but there's stuff, there are little nuggets all the way through. And I also did a lot of changing of tenses and pronouns because when I first submitted that book oh so many years ago, I had done it all as "they." And the publisher rebelled and said, "No, you can't do that," which is why the previous version of the book was a lot of "she" and alternating between "she" and "he" everywhere. So this one is a little bit more leaning towards neutral, which had been my original hope.

Laylla: Excellent. Reading through it, I could tell that it had originally been a coven primer or a coven handout, is how it felt.

Ivo: Oh, yes. Oh, yes.

Laylla: I could see a lot of that in there. And I enjoyed the chapters that you had on working with energy and being able to recognize that in a group or with other people. Is there anything in there that you would recommend to someone, in particular, that's starting to do that type of work on their own?

Ivo: Don't skimp on re-reading the chapters related to how to deal with things when they go badly. I have a chapter that's primary focuses on what to do if somebody has an adverse or a stronger than usual reaction to things. And that's going to happen sooner or later. But the thing with any kind of emergency, aka emergency situation, is that you're going to do better if you've thought about it when it isn't necessary. It's kind of like trying to flip through a book on first aid when somebody has been injured in front of you, as opposed to digesting some of that information so when it happens, you can stay cool and calm and focused. So I would say that if you are organizing things, then that's a chapter that needs to be kind of like tucked in the back of your head so that you can pull it out easily should the need arise. Though the single biggest thing that I think I repeat in a couple of different ways in that chapter is you are the person that has to stay calm, cool, centered, grounded, or else you won't be much use. And I hate to say it, but managing the mob is often a problem because there's, there's too many helpers can really ruin the broth when you're trying to help somebody who's having a energetic or spiritual or maybe physical crisis. More than once, I've told people, "Do you know anything about this person's relationship to blood sugar? Because this doesn't look spiritual. This looks, this looks like diabetes."

Laylla: That's actually a really good point right there, and a common thing.

Ivo: Yeah.

Laylla: And you have to kind of be aware of that preparation in the beginning before you get into the thick of things. And having that knowledge first is vital because when things do kind of start to get a little bit messy, you want to, you want to have solid ground to stand on.

Ivo: And you also don't want to be second-guessing yourself during or later. So that it's good to know that you've done the best that you can.

Laylla: Chelle and I were talking before you came on that we were both kind of laughing because right off the bat, page one, page three of this book, we were like, "There's some cool stuff right here, and we're going to start right at the literal beginning." And it kind of goes along with what you were just saying. One of the very first things that you tell people is that they need to have discernment. You need to know what your biases are, know what your fears are, know what your expectations are before you go into any type of spirit work or energy work. And we were laughing a little bit because just recently, we had a listener who was asking about how to go about contacting their grandmother. They wanted to work with their grandmother using a Ouija board. And they wanted to know how to start that, what they should do. And the first thing we said was, "Find out first what your fears, your biases, and what your expectations are. List those first." And so we loved that that was like the very first thing that you said here. Can you, can you tell us a little more about that?

Ivo: Honestly, everything that you might ever learn about how to deal with living human beings is exactly the same things that you need for doing work with the spirits, whether they be human spirits or any other kind of spirits. You know, that active listening stuff or, or that sense of presence or holding space that you might do for a living person? Yeah, you're going to do that with the dead as well. Or when you meet new people, or if, if there were, you know how there's a scam nowadays where people get phone calls from supposed family members that are in trouble somewhere and needing money and yada yada?

Chelle: Unfortunately, yeah.

Ivo: Pretty common thing. Well, you know, the spirits do that, too.

Laylla: So they're like scam spirit phone calls? Is that what you're saying?

Ivo: I'm going to compare it to this very popular phenomenon right now because you do have to test the spirits in the same way you would test to make sure that you are actually getting a message from a relative that you're looking for.

Chelle: And that was my thing right from page three because I'm like, "What do you mean test the spirits?" Like, that just seemed like such a foreign concept to me.

Ivo: Well, some people have told me, "Doesn't that seem rude?" And it's like,

Chelle: That's what I was thinking.

Ivo: Well, the thing is that if it's actually them, they're not hearing your words. They're seeing your energy. They're feeling your, the emotional energy that you're, the thought energy that you're putting out. So they can tell where you're coming from, and it's like, "Oh, oh, the poor dear doesn't, isn't sure whether or not it's me or not." So of course they need reassurance. Of course they need proof. So I would say it's a pretty bad danger sign if something is getting grumpy because you're asking for ID.

Laylla: Yeah, your great-grandma is not going to get mad at you because you're trying to keep yourself safe. She's going to understand.

Ivo: She'll be very, very, very happy that you are taking things seriously and locking your door and, and looking through the peephole before you open it.

Chelle: I think, I think at this age, I found it to make complete sense. Um, but 30 years ago, I would have been too scared to even fathom the concept. Again, you know, 30 years ago, I was much younger and, and less knowledgeable. Now it makes sense to me.

Ivo: We also lived in a very different world then.

Chelle: True. True. Very true.

Ivo: The risks and the potential dangers of a variety of sorts have increased. And, and honestly, I would say that the other problem with not getting clear first before trying to reach out is, how about this? I just said that what they hear is not our physical voice. They hear our spiritual voice. They feel our emotions and so on. Well, you know, that loud, yakky voice that's the primary waking consciousness voice that is listening to this show right now and is asking questions through you right now is not the totality of who you are. You've got different voices and different feelings and different layers within yourself, and all those parts of you are calling out to that spirit. And the one that might be the loudest may not be the, the conscious speaking voice that you're speaking right now. So that it may be your fears or your anxieties or your wish-fulfillment desires or all those other things may be louder, and the spirit will, will respond to the loudest signal.

Chelle: Then my next question would be, how would someone who's new to spirit work be able to decipher the difference between spirit and in having, having that connection and conversation with spirit, or am I just making this up in my head? Do I think that I'm hearing, is this my brain telling me this? Is this real?

Ivo: Yes. So, so here's the thing. Even if it's working, it's still your brain filling it in because you are the receiver, and you have to translate those frequencies into something understandable to you. However, I like to compare it to this. If, if you've ever had an animal companion of any kind, or have friends that have animals as well, you know how people will often speak for their pet? They'll say something, and then they'll speak for their pet, and it goes back and forth.

Laylla: The whole voice and everything.

Ivo: The whole deal.

Laylla: The whole deal.

Ivo: I think that's exactly what we do when we're first starting out, and even when we're at it for years with the spirits. But here's the funny thing with animals. If you keep doing that for a while, you, you get closer and closer to, to speaking what they actually, what the animal actually wants or, or is feeling. Because you learn to hold your head in the right way to tune into what they're feeling, and then your voice is now more their voice. You're, you're actually channeling for them, or actually acting like a medium for them. Which is why, by the way, if somebody has animal companions and they do that at home, when they drop into somebody else's house, the animals respond to them differently because, "Oh, they're tuned into me, aren't they?" They know an animal person.

Laylla: Right, right. You're kind of on that same wavelength. And yes, as an animal person, I hear exactly what you're saying because it it is almost, I'm going to compare it to reading tarot because you said a little bit is like being a receiver and receiving these messages and, and letting them, it's similar now that I think about it. When I'm being very receptive to messages that I'm getting when I'm reading tarot, it is kind of coming through my head. It is me.

Ivo: It's a similar, it's a similar process.

Laylla: Yeah. And when I hear my pets, particularly my beloved dog who's no longer with us, but I could, I felt like I could hear his thoughts. I, I knew when something was wrong, or you could feel when he's happy, or you can feel when they need something. It's those little tiny shifts of energy, and you really tune into them. I love how you said that. That, that makes it so accessible.

Ivo: So when you start spirit work, at first, it's going to be mostly a made-up conversation. But the more you keep at it, the more you begin to tune in, so that the part that you then repeat as their words get closer and closer to actually being their words.

Laylla: Their words.

Ivo: Their words. Um, so, so it's a process. It's not a binary. It's, it's not either/or. It's, over time, you become better at it. And the more you learn to be aware of who and what you're feeling and what you are in that moment and get out of your way, the, the clearer it will become over time, especially if you work with similar beings or spirits again and again, because you'll be able to get a sense of, "This is their tone of voice. This is who they are." That's who they are with you. I mean, if we were at, say, a potluck dinner with a bunch of friends, uh, and we know, all know each other, and we, we've all talked to each other, but we each have a different impression of who that person is. So, so when we, even if you're working with gods, goddesses, or, or ancestors that are known to others, the relationship and the dialogue that you have with them will always be uniquely the kind of dialogue that you have. In the same way, like I said, everything that you know about dealing with other human beings is filled with ways to think about communication with, with spirits.

Laylla: That makes perfect sense. I mean, we all code-switch. We all are a slightly different person at work. We're a slightly different person with our friends, a slightly different person with our family. I mean, it's still us, but we're just showing different facets of who we are to these different groups. And spirit does the same thing.

Ivo: I'm going to say the biggest code-switch to, to follow using that word, is when our dead ancestors choose to show up resembling who they were in life.

Laylla: Right. Oh, yeah. There, yeah. Yes. Yeah, because there's so much more there.

Ivo: That's not who they are anymore.

Laylla: That's right.

Ivo: But out of kindness, or out of a, a need for, for making it easier for us to get some clarity, they have to code-switch into, "Oh, wait a minute. Wait a minute. When I was there, you know, Aunt Sarah, um, okay."

Laylla: They know me in this physical form.

Ivo: "I need to, I need to, I need to respond. Otherwise, they're going to think I'm just some random spirit talking to them." But that's not them anymore.

Laylla: You kind of mention that, too, later because I, I had a conversation recently with one of my community members about reincarnation and our ancestors. If our ancestors have reincarnated and they're on this plane, how do we speak to them in the spirit realm? And, and I feel that these are facets of a greater soul. And what, what's your response to that?

Ivo: So, could a lot of things, but how about two? Um, one, time is a lot weirder than people think.

Laylla: Oh, I love that. Yes. Absolutely. Yeah.

Ivo: So, when we reach out to, to spirits of the dead, the time frame they're in is, is radically different than, it's not even about linear time, but eternity and other kinds of time, because there are tons of different flavors of time. But also, we, I mean, sometimes we talk to our dead, and we inadvertently bump into them while they're still alive within their time frame. Sometimes we talk to our dead, and they're in the afterlife, whatever that may be, and it's a different kind of time. But here's the other thing about fragments. I don't remember all the things I've put in my books or which one. But, uh, one of the comparisons I like to give to human souls, and this applies to animals as well. So, have you ever grown daffodils?

Laylla: Yes.

Chelle: Yes.

Ivo: Okay. And if you, if you plant regular, hardy daffodils, if you plant like three or four and come back, you know, 10 years later, there's like a lot of them. They, they split, they spread, they split, they spread, right?

Laylla: Yes.

Ivo: So, imagine that daffodil bulb deep in the dark of the otherworld. And then every year, it sends up leaves, a shoot, and then a flower, and then it shrivels back down. We have just seen the entire human life cycle. It comes up into the light, it grows, it flourishes, it goes back down. And that bulb is spirit that is outside of time and space. And every incarnation, the bulb gets a little bit bigger and a little bit plumper, and it, it takes, drains down into it the memory of all the things. And, and even though it's the same daffodil, every year, the, the leaves look slightly different, the flower looks slightly different because the weather's different, the world's different, yada yada. But when the bulb gets too big, it splits, and now there's two plants coming up, but they're still from the same source. So, I think that over time, the thing that we think of as, as individuated soul goes back into that bulb, and that bulb keeps splitting and making more.

Laylla: I love that analogy.

Ivo: But, but they're still connected.

Laylla: Yeah, it's still there.

Ivo: They're still there. They're still ultimately from the same source. They're just choosing to, to split and individuate.

Laylla: I love that. And you, even as you're enjoying those daffodils that are here right now, you can still speak to the bulb in the ground. The bulb is still there holding everything that was in that place that's the outside of our normal time.

Ivo: It's beautiful.

Laylla: It's funny because when we talk, Chelle and I do a ritual where we, we walk a spiral. Uh, actually, at Sacred Space, we did the, the spiral ritual. And, and we talk about time that way. Sometimes you'll see fragments of yourself somewhere on that curve above you, below you, ahead of you, behind you, and different ancestors and spirits. And sometimes you'll cross paths with them, but those spirals connect in weird and interesting ways. And, and I like thinking of time that way. It's very strange.

Ivo: Time's a complicated thing.

Laylla: Wibbly-wobbly,

Ivo: Timey-wimey.

Laylla: Timey-wimey. Our, our proper Doctor Who reference. That's right.

Laylla: So reincarnation and, and plants. So actually, daffodils is a great way to get me right back to my favorite chapter, the plant spirits. Now, a lot of our listeners know that I am a cannabis activist. I do like to work with that plant.

Ivo: Yep. Yep.

Laylla: But particularly, one of the things very close to my heart is the goddess of that plant. When I first started growing cannabis a long time ago, that's when I became an, an animist because I could see the life in that plant. I could see the spirit. Yeah, and the connection to the world and to growing things was so easy with that plant, with, with the spirit of that plant. And it really helped me to, I mean, growing up, I was very much a woods child. I could see the spirits in the woods. I'd play in the bushes and the, you know, the little lights in the trees. And, and I felt very at home there. But growing things really helped me to connect to the earth as a living thing, to, to plants as a connection between this world and the next. And I love how you connected that daffodil to the spirit world because I think plants, you even mention it in the book, that plants are a bridge between all these different worlds. Can you talk about that a little bit?

Ivo: I think that, uh, all right, I'm, I'm summarizing from the whole thing. Let's, let's hit the idea of, of the four elements, which a lot of, uh, magical folks work with in some fashion or another. So we've got that idea, okay, four elements. And we've got the idea of there being, uh, life force, right? And then elemental forces, and things that are, some people think that crystals have a sense of consciousness and beingness as well, right?

Laylla: I do. Raising my hand.

Ivo: All right. Plants cross every boundary. They are connected to the mineral powers, they're connected to the elemental powers, they're connected to the forces that we can think of as prana or pure life force, so that they bridge across the different kingdoms or the different realms of life, if you will. So, if you're an animist and and you believe that everything has life and and or spirit and all the above, then plants are the connecting tissue between all those things because those are different layers or different planes of of consciousness for different kinds of life. Here's the other thing. From a purely symbolic and physical perspective, they are the only thing that is has the power that uh can consistently convert the four elements of, you know, the fire of the light, the water, the soil, and the air into that which feeds every single other thing on the planet.

Laylla: That's You just blew my mind.

Guest: I mean, in in some ways uh uh I remember when I've been a vegetarian for a very long time. I have no problem with other people eating meat. The reason I became a vegetarian like 45-ish years ago was mostly about using fewer electricity, water, fossil fuel, blah, blah, blah. It was Good reason. It was a local ecological reason. So, I found out that also my allergies got better if I avoided meat. So, there were a lot of, you know, lots of pluses. And uh another plus decades later uh from it as well. But, people would go like, "Well, you know, you're you're not morally higher up the chain because you're a vegetarian, blah, blah." And so, "I'm not making that claim. That's not the reason I'm a vegetarian." And I said, "If anything, I should feel slightly guiltier because in some ways, plants represent a higher order of spiritual evolution in the way that they exist in the world than I do."

Laylla: Oh no, now you're going to give me an existential crisis.

Guest: Think about it. I mean, think about it.

Chelle: I actually I am actually feel you're you're having your existential crisis and I am feeling on top of the world because I am turning it around. No, I, evil plants used to come to me to die and I have turned it around. I don't know if it was that plant Laylla got me for my 50th birthday or what, but I've had a streak now for a little over a year that I have kept these things alive and I am proud of myself because it's actually a huge feat for me.

Laylla: It is.

Guest: That is amazing.

Chelle: I think it's because I've talked to them.

Guest: You know, and and here's the thing. When we talk to them, because, you know, obviously they don't have language like we do, they have their own kind of consciousness, yadda yadda, all that kind of stuff. However, when we reach out to try to talk to plants, we show up on their radar. We show up in their senses. Our energy does reach them, and then they go, "I'm going to follow that back." So, so that it creates the, you know, because they're always they're always connecting, whether it's it's reaching upwards into the sky or downwards in into the earth or or horizontally or or catching which whatever messages are on the wind. But, the point is, when we send out our energy, it makes it easier for them to become aware of our existence in their environment.

Laylla: Love.

Guest: Then, it's possible for them to talk back.

Laylla: And and I think that that learning to connect with that spirit of places is so important, and the spirits of the world are so important. And I think that by going to wherever you happen to live, going out and trying to connect with those plants, even if it's just looking at the plants in your area, they'll start to speak to you like you were talking about with the animals earlier. If you start listening, they can speak to you and and you can really start to connect to the energies in your area. I think particularly through watching things grow and die as the seasons change.

Chelle: I think that would apply also, though, to to house plants as well. So, even if it's not a going out, bringing it in.

Guest: Oh, absolutely. I think, actually, house plants are really good starting point for a lot of people. Mhm. Um because people spend more most of their time indoors.

Laylla: That's true. And and not everybody has the ability to to go outside to land. A lot of us live in cities or, you know, urban areas that just don't have that.

Guest: Right. So, house plants are great. I I will say that for anybody that does magic of any sort or or healing work of any sort, hey, you know, the biggest source of biomass on the planet is plants. Um so, the the the largest percentage of life force in in the world around us is coming from the plants. So, though every time that you tap into the universe and try to draw energy to do magic or do healing, a goodly chunk of that energy that you're calling, even if you're not thinking about plants, it's plants.

Laylla: And how often when we're doing a grounding ritual or we're talking about drawing energy in, we think of a tree, right? It's the branches or a plant, it's the roots, and it's such a common analogy in a meditation.

Guest: But, even if you're not, just know that the plants are responsible for a goodly portion of the power that uh you're able to access.

Laylla: That's amazing. And, you know, you you know, they do studies with plants where they can respond to your voice, respond to music, and and grow in different ways. And and again, even just myself with my own personal I have a lot of house plants. It's not anything special to say that I can grow them because I I just grow them. Whereas Chelle, she has a little bit more trouble. But, this past year or so, I would say that she has started to work with plants a little bit differently. You know, I think sometimes we get to a point in our practice where we see things with new eyes and we can learn something new in our practice. In that vein, you added some new things to the book. How about yourself? Is there anything new that you're learning in your life or in your practice right now? Is there anything new that you're starting?

Guest: You're in You're asking a question on an interesting year because I have a I have a practice that uh years that end with zeros or fives, basically every five years, is a year that I intentionally try to expose myself to music, art, um practices, uh different cultures. Every five years, I make an intensive effort to do that to reconnect with the world so that I don't fall out of sync with the world.

Laylla: I love that. I think I might steal that.

Guest: Hey, you know, um December 9th is my birthday. So, like a month from now, basically, I'll be 67. Yay.

Laylla: Happy early birthday.

Guest: But, it's really easy to I mean, it's easy enough to be in a bubble in terms of the information we receive, but it's really easy to fall out of sync with whichever directions the world is going in unless every couple of years, like every five seemed reasonable, you make an intensive dive into other stuff.

Laylla: Love that. Was there anything in particular that stuck out to you?

Guest: So, this particular year, because uh I I met a young young person who is very much into uh Mayan mythology, and that had never been anything that drew my attention, I am intentionally reading his blog, and I am paying attention to uh my other friends that uh follow that particular path. So, I And now, I have It's not that I have any intention of making that part of my daily practice or learning enough to make it worthy for me to consider it valuable to work with.

Chelle: But expanding your knowledge.

Guest: Expanding my knowledge is is a big deal. And, the other bit is that any day now, we will notice five new flavors of of witchcraft or magic that somebody else has come up with, right?

Laylla: It's true.

Guest: And, to avoid a very human human uh built-in I think it's a built-in flaw, feature, and bug all at the same time, is I I struggle to I will not roll my eyes until I have listened to it.

Laylla: That's Actually, especially as we get older, that's really good advice.

Guest: It is. And, more importantly, I I didn't know that I would enjoy uh, you know, jazz banjo bluegrass music. But, that's one of the things that this year I discovered. The the last time that we were in the zeros, I I discovered uh the strangeness of a band called Electric Callboy.

Laylla: Oh, okay.

Chelle: Interesting.

Laylla: Have you ever listened to Hypnotic Clambake?

Guest: Yes.

Laylla: Okay, there you go.

Guest: Yes. So, the thing is that I I try to expose myself, but I have to make more of an effort to do those kinds of cultural things. Because of who I am and how long I've been around, I am constantly having people shove books under my nose and say, "Please read this and tell me what you think."

Laylla: Right.

Guest: Or can you Or or email me, "Hey, uh can you write a blurb for this book I'm writing?" So, I've got lots of that kind of stuff coming through all the time. But, one of the things about being uh a magical person is that you need to have a wide range of interest because Well, I think several times in the course of Spirit Speak, I'll I'll kind of like poke and say that, you know, really you need to learn a little bit about everything.

Chelle: In one way or another.

Guest: I agree.

Chelle: And you should.

Guest: And you should.

Laylla: And you should journal about it, too.

Chelle: Jeez.

Guest: Or or paint or or I know people that do different ways of expressing those things. And uh many years ago, uh one of the people that I consider one of my primary teachers, Dolores Ashcroft-Nowicki, she was teaching a class at our place, and somebody asked her, "Well, you know, what should I study because I want to understand time better?" since we were talking about timey-wimey stuff. Mhm. And she said, "Take a geology course." Oh. And and their eyes got a little bit weird. And if you can't afford to take a course, you can you can you can take books out of the library. And, yes, there's there's ways to learn, right? Mhm. And and they asked, "Well, why?" It's like, "Because you have to break your habit of thinking of time like a human. It's all very short and quick for humans. If you can think in terms of geologic time, then you're not thinking the way the universe does." Oh.

Laylla: Oh, that's like literally deep.

Guest: It is. It is. So, so, one of uh for years, uh almost every day, ever since the internet happened, and before that I had magazines arriving in the in the mailbox, every day I start uh with uh visiting a science website, usually Science Daily, but some others as well, and I'll randomly pick or Wired is the other one I read. I'll randomly pick a couple of articles and read them and go, "Huh."

Laylla: Oh, that's right. You were in IT for a while. That's where the Wired came from. Okay.

Guest: Yeah, yeah. Yeah, I mean, I I mean, I I had email in the '70s, if that puts it in perspective.

Laylla: Okay, yeah. Wow, that's when computers were like big, like room size.

Guest: No, I I go back to the to the era of of carrying boxes of punch cards, so.

Laylla: Yeah. Good grief.

Guest: But, the point is uh I I get a lot of exposure to magical ideas and but the ones that are less common, uh I have to go hunting down like the Mayan stuff. But, in general, uh most of the things that uh that uh inspire me are the things that didn't come out of the magical community because uh how about this? It's like a balanced diet. I'm already getting that particular food group.

Chelle: You need You need to get your other food groups. You need to get the music, the theater, the arts. Yes.

Guest: Yes. Yes. And and that's the only way to to remain fully inspired. And, also, it is easier to avoid getting trapped in your own dogma or somebody else's dogma if you are constantly experiencing the flux of things.

Laylla: I like that.

Guest: Because then change becomes kind of like, "Well, that's kind of normal." And it's kind of like, "Well," a friend of mine was like she was mopey that that, "These are so important to me, and it looks like these practices are dying out in our magical community." And I said, "Wait 20 years, they'll be back."

Laylla: They'll be back. Yeah.

Guest: Wait 20 years.

Laylla: You know, if it's important to you, you should keep practicing it. And you touched on something, Ivo, that I I really enjoy is trying new things also involves not being afraid to fail and not being afraid to not be good at it. Right. I think a lot of people, magically and otherwise, they might be afraid to try a new practice or to learn about something new because Because they think they have to do it perfect the first time. How do you avoid that? How do you how do you avoid that feeling of perfectionism the first go-round?

Guest: Well, first, uh you know, I like to call it the tyranny of excellence, which is that if if you can't do it well enough to uh win an award or make your living off of it, then it's probably not worth doing, which means nobody ever does anything. And, honestly, this is an artifact of paid entertainment, mass media. If we were in a different part of the world, if we were in a different part in time, every little village, every little cluster of people would have a couple of folks that had just enough musical talent to play for their village and keep people entertained, or were good enough as a storyteller to keep people entertained, or the village felt happy to get together and sing and it and and they didn't have to sound great. It was good, and it was enough. I don't need to have, you know, the Oh, do you know who Dimash Kudaibergen is?

Laylla: No.

Guest: I will I will drop you a note because it's hard to parse what I just said. So, Dimash Kudaibergen, one of the people I discovered uh in on one of these jaunts, is a a young man uh who is a singer from Kazakhstan and probably has currently the world's most miraculous voice on the planet in terms of range and control and breath work and the whole deal. I don't like all of the music he does, but I'm always remarkably impressed by an example of, "This is a human being making this happen."

Laylla: Yeah, that can be amazing when you when you see it.

Guest: It's like, "Whoa. Whoa." But, but anyway, we don't have to be a a freak of nature. How about this? Uh you know, you know the song from uh Fifth Element, the Diva Dance song?

Laylla: Yes, I love that. It's beautiful.

Guest: He can sing the whole thing by himself, even even the parts For real? Yeah, for real. Like, even the parts that were computer-generated.

Laylla: Okay, I'm looking him up. Please do drop me a note with how to spell his name because I that's wow.

Guest: Yeah. And then, we have the next thing that it's there's worse than I'm actually going to say, Chelle, that there's worse than than uh deciding that you shouldn't do it at all if you can't be excellent at it. There's one that's even worse than that.

Laylla: What's that?

Guest: "I will make this excellent by putting it into an AI, and it won't be me, but it will be me."

Laylla: Oh, lord. No. No.

Guest: You know what I'm saying? And and I, believe me, I I I love technology's appropriate uses, but there is a sort of weird disempowerment that occurs when people decide that the only way that their voice is going to sound all right is if they process it through this AI, or the only way that their words are going to be good enough to be an invocation to share at their next ritual is by getting ChatGPT to help write them their invocation.

Chelle: Right.

Chelle: And that's not the case.

Guest: It's not the case for a lot of reasons. You know, if you are writing stupid form letters for for for your corporate job,

Laylla: That's fine. It doesn't need a soul.

Guest: Go for it. Go for it. Go for it. You know, it's not that much different than just using boilerplate letters and just changing, you know. But, you deprive yourself of the of the of the fire of creativity and the transformation that comes from it. And, also, the reason people benefit spiritually from singing or painting or sculpting or gardening or coming up with new recipes for cooking or incense or whatever, is it is a different kind of exercise to refine who you are as an individual and as a spirit working in the physical world. So, yes, we're tool users. There's nothing wrong with using tools. And, there are there are tools that uh result in in you being less and diminished rather than engaged and grown.

Laylla: Yeah, and take me for example. I am very often will say, especially if I'm trying to teach a chant to someone, "I I can't sing. I can sing. I don't sing well." But, that's okay. I sing very enthusiastically now. I didn't used to. And, the reason for that is because it's very easy to get intimidated by people like the the singer that you just mentioned. And, we go to some of these circles and you hear people singing harmonies and these beautiful compliments to things. And, here's me, I can chant in the key of dirge, and that's about as good as it gets.

Guest: But, you're moving.

Laylla: Right. And so, I used to fake it. I used to sometimes not sing. I might move my mouth or I wouldn't sing. And, it feels different. And so, I liken that to if I'm just going through the motions or if I'm using What's it all matter at that point? Yeah, where is the energy coming from? It's not It was there a little bit. But, once I finally wasn't afraid to fail and wasn't afraid to do it enthusiastically but badly, I felt the energy better and it was so beautiful. And and now, I'm more excited to get into these chants and try to do it well, but do it, even though it's not great, because it it feels better. It feels good. I'm part of the energy. I'm part of the magic. Whereas, if I just offloaded it to a tool or just moving my mouth, it's not the same.

Guest: That's the same.

Chelle: It doesn't have your spirit in it.

Guest: No, and the spirits know that it's not.

Laylla: Right. And, the spirits don't care I can't hold a tune.

Guest: Spirits don't care about that at all. They can't even hear it.

Laylla: Right. They feel the energy.

Guest: Ah, which means that they which means that when you when you are in it sincerely, whatever it may be, whether it's a song or an invocation or just a a longing reaching to make connection with a particular kind of spirit, whether it's a god or goddess, a nature spirit, spirit of place, an ancestor, whatever, what they're feeling is what you are putting out. So, that if you don't feel that you are worthy and competent and that your best is enough, then it doesn't reach their ears the same way.

Laylla: Beautiful way to say it. Yeah, and and that kind of goes back to a little bit what we were saying earlier is that to reach out to them and to speak to them, and they will hear what you're really asking. They will hear what's that underlying question or that underlying yearning. They'll hear that, even if your conscious mind is cluttered with other things.

Guest: Even if if it's uh all monkeys uh on on tricycles.

Laylla: That's right. They'll still manage to parse what what you're what you're actually looking for. That's so true. Now, bringing it back to tarot, sometimes that happens in in tarot, too, when you're doing a reading for someone. The question they don't ask sometimes gets answered.

Guest: More important.

Laylla: Or or is the really important one.

Guest: Yeah, the one that they should be asking that they're not.

Laylla: Yeah, one of the things that uh also uh is there's no reason, and people have told me, "Aren't aren't they going to think you're you're being rude?" and it's like, "No, they won't." So, people have asked me about, "Well, I want to practice being able to connect with and uh either as a medium or a channeler or do divine embodiment and whatever, but I don't want to bother the the the the gods and goddesses, you know, because it's it's just a practice run." And, it's like, "And that makes it what?"

Laylla: Lesser? No.

Guest: No, it does not.

Guest: And, actually, I I think that they would be delighted that you're that you're trying to get better at it. And, the other bit is that, "Well, I don't want to bother them," it's like, "Uhhuh. And, are you underestimating their bandwidth compared to yours?"

Laylla: Ooh, that's a good point.

Guest: It's quite It's quite, you know, it's quite a matter if you're, you know, if you if you're if you're calling up a friend or or or or somebody that you take classes from, you know, they've got, you know, they've got a life, they've got family and work and all the things, and now it's their job to let you know, "Hey, I'm really busy until tomorrow night," or, you know, they they have to do their own gatekeeping, right? And their own keeping of clean boundaries. But, if you're talking about huge, expansive, out of time and space beings, I'm pretty sure they have time to to uh do a run-through.

Laylla: Do a run-through.

Guest: They they they can be doing a million run-throughs at the same time that they're composing, you know, music. I don't know.

Laylla: Yeah, they can talk to all of us at the same time. It's much bigger. You know, and and that's it's interesting because the concept of spirits, the concept of time, the concept of the earth and plant spirits, all of this is bigger than than we sometimes comprehend.

Guest: Right. Right. I sometimes get into trouble with people when I tell them that every every god or goddess or divine being, a deity, whatever word you like best, that has ever been encountered by human being that we've ever worked with and still have a name for or any any idea for, they're only locals.

Laylla: That's an interesting concept to to think of them as.

Guest: From my perspective, from my perspective, because, you know, we're we're one tiny little solar system midway through a one spiral arm of of one, you know, medium-sized spiral galaxy. And, you know what? I need

Chelle: They really are the locals.

Guest: And there's nothing wrong with that.

Chelle: No.

Guest: There's absolutely nothing wrong with that. And and and the same way we talked about daffodils and how human spirits and lives can be scattered in and and can can connected in different ways. But the ones we are working with are the ones that have bothered to pay attention to and focus on what's happened around this small yellow star in the middle of nowhere.

Chelle: Yeah.

Guest: So they're locals. So so when they say, what about the spirit that's the spirit that's the whole spiral arm? Let's think of spirits of place. The spirit that's the whole spiral arm, the spirit that's the whole galaxy, the spirit that's the the the cluster of local galaxies, the you know what I'm saying?

Laylla: Yeah, you're you're taking that daffodil analogy and expanding it to the whole universe.

Guest: And and spirit of place.

Laylla: So the Earth is that daffodil in the universe.

Guest: Tiny little Yeah, absolutely. But there's nothing wrong with that because but uh but even then, it's it's it's in some ways accepting how vast space and time and the other realms are, it can either make you feel like you suddenly became bigger, or it can make you feel much smaller.

Chelle: It can be very scary to face the cosmos like that.

Guest: It's a little It's a little Alice in Wonderland, uh, you know, in terms of one makes you big and one makes you small.

Laylla: Maybe it depends on how you look at it, too, or what mood you're in that day.

Guest: What mood you're in that day, which which which current happy thing or sad thing just happened, whether or not you're feeling confident, whether or not you're feeling, um, less than or whatever. But what I can say is just the fact that you can connect with any beings should be enough of a miracle.

Laylla: Just that we can connect with each other, I think, is a miracle.

Guest: Is a miracle. Yes. Oh, wow.

Chelle: Now, Ivo, before before we let you go, um, because we don't want to take up too much of your time, and we appreciate every minute with you, I want to switch gears for a minute.

Guest: Sure.

Chelle: This episode will go out uh before the end of November. And right now, you are one of those folks that are considered an authority on some things astrology.

Guest: That is true.

Chelle: So, I actually happen to own the Gemini and the Libra books. Love them. I know Laylla owns her Aquarius book. I think what I need to know at the moment is how are we going to get through what I have heard as the messiest Mercury retrograde of the year? Can you guide us on maybe uh some tips and tricks to survive the month of November?

Guest: I will. I will. And and and then I'm going to give you a uh heads up for uh next year's stuff.

Chelle: Oh, no.

Laylla: Okay.

Guest: Just because. So, for most people, besides Okay. Don't be stupid.

Chelle: Good advice.

Guest: During Mercury retrograde, you are more careful. It's you use the carpenter's adage of uh measure twice, cut once, right? You double check things. You you double check the emails. You actually file things away. So so part of it is you don't install Hey, let's upgrade all the operating systems on all the computers at my office.

Chelle: Bad idea. Talk them out of that, Ivo.

Guest: Talk them out of it. At least or at least back up all your stuff the night before they do it. Um, so so part of it is just being cautious. But here's the other thing. Let's lean into the parts that are going to be good. So, it is going to be a an especially intense Mercury retrograde. However, here are things that work better during Mercury retrograde. Counseling sessions work better during Mercury retrograde because your defenses don't work as well.

Laylla: Talk about using it to your advantage.

Guest: Seriously. Past life work works better during Mercury retrograde. Certain kinds of of of spirit work work better during Mercury retrograde because Mercury's playing loose with the rules. Now, the other thing you can do is whoever works in your system of of belief, whether that's Mercury, whether that's Hermes, whoever is uh the being that you associate with communication, with travel, with commerce, or whatever, set up a little altar for them and start making giving them offerings during this entire time period.

Chelle: Every minute of every day.

Guest: I I actually have a Mercury Do you know what I mean by a Mercury dime?

Laylla: Yeah, they have the symbol of the

Guest: Mercury silver dime.

Laylla: Oh, yeah. Okay. Yeah, yeah, yeah.

Guest: I have a little Mercury dime in a in a in a pouch uh that's orange cloth because orange is is is the is one of the Mercury colors. And and a piece of star anise and a few other things in it. And basically, I ask for Mercury's guidance and help and uh to to uh be kind and gentle during this time period.

Laylla: Ivo.

Guest: Yes.

Laylla: Did you just say we should kiss up to Mercury? Is that what you're saying?

Guest: Yes.

Laylla: Okay. I want to make sure I heard that right.

Guest: Or Hermes. Or if you work in a different system where there's another comparable being that represents travel and communication and commerce and stuff, kiss their butts. That's what Chelle: Absolutely. Well, so you don't want them to forget you're there.

Laylla: Okay. Well, we don't.

Guest: No, you don't. You actually want You actually want them to pay attention to you. Oh, they're faithful and loyal. I will I will shield them during this time.

Laylla: My favorite butt kisser.

Chelle: I like I That's why I like that you said lean into some of the things you can work with because I think there's so much negativity around Mercury retrograde.

Guest: Editing editing works better. If you want to look at a manuscript and see it with fresh eyes, man, read it during Mercury retrograde.

Laylla: So if I edit all those episodes that I've been sitting on, it'll go easier? Is that what you're saying?

Guest: The technical parts you have to double triple check, but the content you'll get a better insight on.

Laylla: Okay. Fair enough. Fair enough.

Guest: But when Mercury retrograde ends on the 29th, uh that that whole day, though you could also include the day before or after, but mostly the 29th and maybe 30th. So, have you ever used a uh one of those boards where you have uh the old style brown paper and the big magic markers?

Chelle: Oh, yeah.

Guest: Well, have you ever noticed how the paper is very porous because it's low quality, and when you're moving a marker across, if you stopped to answer a question and hold still too long, the ink will spread and it'll form this big blob around where you paused?

Chelle: And bleeds nine pages deep.

Guest: So, when Mercury goes retrograde, either to go retrograde or or stations to go direct, it's like the magic marker that is Mercury is slowed down and even more Mercury energy seeps into the canvas of life. So that if you want to charge an amulet on on the 29th and 30th to store up Mercury energy that you can use as your as your as your life support the next time it's Mercury retrograde,

Laylla: That's so smart. That's such a good idea. Why didn't I think of that?

Guest: Because you actually have a concentrated dollop of that energy uh every time it stations either to go direct or go retrograde.

Laylla: Now, see, my own biases about Mercury retrograde prevented me from ever even seeing the wisdom of that. It's such a good idea. I love that.

Guest: So, the only other thing I'll say is that next year is a uh once in in in a in several eons year for astrology.

Chelle: Is that good or bad?

Guest: Yes.

Chelle: Thanks for that clarification.

Guest: No, it really is about you. So, if you take away just one thing, February, middle of February, like 21st, 22nd, 23rd, because outer planets move slow. So, Saturn and Neptune, which represent totally opposite energies, form structure, linear time, expansion, the higher levels of reality, all those kind of things, are going to be conjunct. Two opposite things being forced to be in conjunct. And they will be conjunct at the 0 degrees of Aries, the first degree of Aries. Now, in astrology, the wheel of the zodiac is actually the creation myth of the universe, and it told in a different way. 0 degrees Aries is the Big Bang, the first breath, the fiat lux, the beginning of of of the of the myth. So that they're conjuncting at the spot that is the beginning of a of the new cycle. I As far as I can tell, it's been more than 6,000 years since the last time that uh that conjunction took place at the 0 degrees of Aries. It's been in Aries plenty of times since, but it's been thousands of years since that's happened. So, we are going to be at the beginning of time again.

Laylla: Wow.

Guest: Which means it's kind of like entering the dream time, entering mythic time. So that the beginning of of of of that moment of time means that the things you do there, each of us individually, is is is is putting into motion a whole new cycle in a truly different world.

Laylla: So we are in the ending right now and moving towards that beginning.

Guest: And then middle of July of next year, all outer planets will be in aspect to each other at once. And so that that will be like the continuation of whatever started in in uh February. So, there's other stuff going on because astrologers can I can I could keep going forever, and I'm trying to keep in in English as opposed to astrologese.

Laylla: Thank you, because I'm a very new, very little astrology

Guest: The other thing is, unfortunately, a lot of astrology is written by astrologers for astrologers rather than trying to make it uh understandable. But just the idea is like, oh, we're we're having the things that represent opposites joining together at the place that is the beginning of of of a new mythic cycle. Okay, that's a big deal. And what happens? Well, that depends on what each of us does individually and each of us does within the collections of people that we have connection to. And then in July, with all the act all the outer planets in connection to each other, it's like, okay, what do you want to pull out of And it's it's kind of like Pandora's box, but I always remind people, the last thing in the box was hope.

Chelle: Hope.

Guest: And that's the thing that we have to pull out of the box.

Laylla: Have you ever seen The Dark Crystal, Ivo?

Guest: Yes, absolutely. And and indeed, actually, uh when I first watched it, I I had to like not bother the people that were in the movie theater sitting next to me because uh the first thing I noticed was that uh The Dark Crystal is actually a Kabbalistic allegory.

Laylla: Oh.

Guest: There are 10 Mystics and 10 Skeksis, which represent the 10 spheres, and that representing the positive and the negative expression of each. And the whole thing begins when the Mystic that is keeper dies.

Laylla: Oh.

Guest: And then kicks off the whole story. And anyway,

Laylla: The reason I brought it up, Ivo, is because as you were talking

Guest: And conjunction.

Laylla: Yes, as you were talking about this, all I could see was Aughra and the universe, and she says, "It's the end, or the beginning." You know, it's one or the other.

Guest: One or the other.

Laylla: Could be both. Maybe it is both.

Chelle: I'm so watching that this weekend.

Guest: I've I've rewatched it quite a number of times. It's it's it's it holds up well.

Laylla: It's a good one. But the conjunctions that are coming, and I did not know that Mercury retrograde I mean, I knew because I have had a day, but Chelle told me that uh Mercury retrograde

Chelle: And I'm like, no wonder you had a day.

Guest: There's a file I had to re-upload twice to a group that I'm part of where I create created the folder for all the documents that were going to go in there, uploaded the first one, went back to check, it's not there.

Chelle: Wasn't there.

Guest: Did it again, it's not there. Third time it materialized, and other people could see it. It's just like, okay, you just wanted to just test my perseverance.

Laylla: There you go. Maybe that Mercury energy just needed to build. You had to build it in the final release.

Guest: Had to rev up.

Laylla: Had to rev up.

Guest: Rev it up.

Laylla: All right. Well, I think we're all going to take your advice and look for the good things in Mercury retrograde.

Guest: And make use of it.

Laylla: Find the hope. Lean into it.

Chelle: Yep.

Laylla: I'm so scared.

Guest: It's a good biggie.

Laylla: Quickly, before we do a closing, I just wanted to say that, you know, we're involved in a couple, you know, outside groups of people who are trying to send energy to the world, trying to affect change that we would like to see in the world.

Guest: Understood.

Laylla: And I think that I just want to put out there that for all of you that are doing that, for all of you that are working towards a better place, a better world, now it sounds like, from what you're saying, Ivo, how we are, where we're putting our energy in February is going to be extremely important. That's going to kind of determine the direction. So, all of you, put the energy towards those good things, towards that change you want to see in the world, particularly moving towards February and in as these things are happening. Because it's I know they talk about the Age of Aquarius, you know, we're ending one age and beginning another. It's just there's a lot of big things afoot.

Guest: Oh, yeah.

Laylla: So, thank you so much for joining us, Ivo, and thank you for all of your wisdom and your words. I appreciate you being on the podcast.

Chelle: Thank you so much. We enjoyed every minute with you tonight.

Guest: It was fun.

Laylla: Now, is there anything that you have coming up or any place where people can find you?

Guest: Honestly, I just suggest people go to my website, ivodominguezjr.com. You can see where I'm teaching next. And also, there's a link there to paganchants.com. I have recreated my old uh chant website that has lyrics and uh audio files for people to listen to.

Chelle: Oh, that's fabulous.

Laylla: Our enthusiastic dirge chanters welcome.

Guest: And it's free content.

Laylla: Yay! We will We will put links to all of that in the show notes for people. So, again, thank you, Ivo, for joining us. We really appreciate it.

Guest: Thank you so much.

Laylla: And, of course, a big thank you to all of you listening to this episode. We will see you next week when we return to our seven-part deity series. And in the meantime, be wild, be wicked, and keep it witchy.
