Laylla: Welcome to back on the broomstick, a modern witches spoken word grimoire.

Chelle: Where two witchy friends from way back are reconnecting to their pagan roots after a long period of mundanity.

Laylla: We're rewalking the path of the wise and trying out all the latest spells, rituals, and magical theory in today's witchcraft and pagan practices.

Chelle: So grab your wand and your incense,

Laylla: your cauldron, and your crystals,

Chelle: and join us as we get back on the broomstick.

Laylla: Hi and welcome to back on the broomstick. I'm Laylla and on this episode we continue with our seven part series on deity. This episode will begin the maiden, mother, crone, warrior series and we're starting with the maiden, the spring goddess of beginnings and renewal and the start of everything.

Chelle: And I'm Chelle and I am so ready to talk about that youthful side of the goddess, that pure, that young, vibrant, ready to burst out just like a flower bursts out of the ground aspect of the goddess.

Laylla: Oh, you make her sound so sweet and innocent.

Chelle: Well, you know, we all have that side.

Laylla: Do we? Do we though?

Chelle: Well,

Laylla: Most of the time when people picture the maiden goddess, she is that Ostara, that fresh-faced spring goddess.

Chelle: Beautiful flowers in her hair, dancing through a flowery field. Yeah.

Laylla: Or, you know, Persephone getting snatched down into the underworld, all those aspects.

Chelle: Well, yeah, they you know, there's that too.

Laylla: There's that too. But yes, before we start with the maiden goddess, let's talk about the triple goddess and the fourth face that's the hidden face, but let's talk about the concept of maiden, mother, crone that we're going to kind of dive into in this series. What is the maiden, mother, crone? Why do we talk about that and where did it come from?

Chelle: I kind of look at it almost like the phases of my life. So there was that teenager, carefree, living large, and then, you know, transition into the mom and, you know, running everybody's life and then transition into that the children are grown, everybody's out of the house, and you're kind of in that wise, old Okay, I'm not saying I'm old, but that wise kind of learned phase of your life.

Laylla: Before we go any further, I have to point something out, Shell.

Chelle: Oh god, what?

Laylla: Okay, remember way back when we started this deity series with the young god, the youthful god?

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: You saw him as that little baby god, that cute little sun baby god, right?

Chelle: Well, yeah.

Laylla: But the young goddess, the maiden is a teen. She's the teenager, that young woman.

Chelle: Okay, like I Okay, now that you say that, I see what you're saying, but we all have like a vision and that's my vision. Are you knocking my vision?

Laylla: No, I just think it's funny that you think the god is the baby and the goddess starts out as a teenager.

Chelle: Well, you know, I guess, yeah.

Laylla: We all have biases. It's all right.

Chelle: But, you know, again, there's that warrior aspect that can be kind of, I think, weaved throughout all three phases. I don't think it's necessarily something that has a a quote unquote age range to it, that warrior aspect. And then I equate that to the phases of the moon, which most people are are used to that triple moon, the two crescents.

Laylla: You see the waxing crescent, the full moon, and the waning crescent represent the triple goddess.

Chelle: Right. And I look at the warrior aspect as the dark moon aspect.

Laylla: A new moon.

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: And where this came from, the idea of a triple goddess.

Chelle: Where did it come from?

Laylla: The idea of a triple goddess that rules over different aspects of your life has been around for a while from a lot of different places, philosophers, religions, and one of the more modern people who wrote about goddesses that fit into different aspects was Aleister Crowley. And Crowley in 1929 wrote a book called Moonchild and he talked about the triple goddess Artemis, Diana, Isis as the maiden, Persephone as the lover, and Hecate as the crone. And he's the one who kind of associated her with the full moon, Diana, the new moon in hell, Hecate, and the half moon as a state between as Persephone. Again, that maiden, mother, crone kind of aspects going into it. Another reference and the one that is usually credited with coming up with the specific labels of maiden, mother, crone is from Robert Graves.

Chelle: Robert Graves, man.

Laylla: Robert Graves in 1948 wrote a book called The White Goddess and he talks about the triple goddess in that book as mother, bride, layer out, which, you know, is like the

Chelle: What is that like on your deathbed, layer out?

Laylla: Yeah, the person who lays out the dead, the old people who who laid out the dead, exactly. And he also calls the triple goddess maiden, nymph, hag. So his idea was the triple goddess very much comes from the perspective of monotheism, right? It's the idea that all goddesses are one goddess. And that goes back even a little bit further to the philosophers and scholars in the 1800s kind of looked at the Greek and Roman gods and goddesses and came up with this idea that they were really just talking about one great goddess, a great mother, the great earth mother. And this was a German philosopher and his name was Edward Gerhard and he came up with this idea in 1849. And it's cool and I do agree with that. I do like the idea of a great goddess or a great god, but it it is very limiting and I think they were kind of trying to make sense of polytheism by pulling it into the idea of a one.

Chelle: Well, I I kind of get that though because I guess I've kind of always viewed Hecate in that way. We've talked about this a billion times, so I've kind of seen her as that younger version and you'll see a lot of statuary of hers kind of a older hag like figure. Maybe not so much like a super young version, but I could see like a a mother, warrior, crone aspect of Hecate and also in Diana. I mean, there's there's multiple goddesses I can see where they've been portrayed throughout history all having those three aspects.

Laylla: There are a couple, but this is a bigger idea that all goddesses are one goddess, that all goddesses are aspect of one great goddess and all gods are aspect of one great god, which I do ascribe to a little bit.

Chelle: I think I ride the fence on that belief.

Laylla: Yeah, I I will also say that I do work with deities as individuals, but I also have a feeling of a sense of wholeness with this idea of the overarching great mother and great father ideas. But it's very hard to describe because then, you know, there's these aspects that are individuals, that are individual personalities, individual deities.

Chelle: Well, and you know, I could see depending on where you're at and in what workings you're doing, maybe regardless of what goddess you're working with, maybe you're going to pull on that younger, new, fresh energy as opposed to the older, wiser, learned energy.

Laylla: Right, right. While the main idea of the triple goddess is three aspects in one goddess, the great goddess, the great mother who embodies all of those aspects, there's also the idea that each goddess herself is a triple goddess, that every goddess contains every aspect in different ratios, just like each person contains all aspects in different ratios. Each person goes through all aspects in their life. And like you mentioned at the beginning of the episode, part of the magic here is that we're supposed to see ourselves in deity. Each goddess has qualities that we can relate to in our lives and they change as we change. That's partly why a lot of religions, not all of them, relate the goddess to the moon because they look at the cycle of the moon, the moon changing as reflecting cycles in our life like we change. The cycle of the moon on a large scale represents that same cycle of life, youth, creation, wisdom, and warrior in there somewhere. And on a smaller scale it mirrors the reproductive cycle of someone who gets a period.

Chelle: As well as societies back then looked at things like menstruation is some crazed mystery

Laylla: Right.

Chelle: as well as the moon was a mystery. I mean, obviously now, you know, we've progressed past that, but there's still that association with with women in mystery and the moon in mystery.

Laylla: Right. And so if you think about it as phases of life, phases of the moon, phases of your period, you know, if you follow the goddess as moon, you can you can do it that way with that 28 day cycle, the waxing, the full, the waning and the new moons as the four different aspects. You could also do a solar cycle with the four different seasons being the four different aspects of the goddess. So however you choose to do that with moon as goddess or sun as goddess, it's still four aspects of your life, maiden, mother, crone, warrior. And I liked how you said earlier how the warrior weaves through. And I honestly think that your phases of your life kind of loosely follow that, but there's times when you're young, when you're going to feel old and and you're going to act more mature or So I think just like you said that with the with the warrior aspect of the goddess, all of those phases were all on different parts of that spiral at different parts of our life.

Chelle: Right. Right. It doesn't necessarily have to go in one beautiful cohesive order. Maybe your beautiful cohesive order is to be crisscross apple sauce all over the place.

Laylla: And the other thing too is, you know, we touched on this a little bit back when we talked about the god, but one of the reasons that I found a lot of joy in witchcraft and why I identified with it so much is because of the goddess. When I found this religion and found out that feminine, female, women, goddess was powerful and amazing and sacred and holy and part of the creation of all, part of the creation of everything, that being feminine, that having feminine energy, that womanhood, that these qualities that make up who I am are not profane, but instead profound. And that there's a divinity to womanhood and that my period wasn't gross and dirty, it was sacred. I could create life. And that myself as a woman, that sexuality isn't bad, it's sacred, it's sensual, it's part of the cycle of nature that I as a female could be seen as sacred and holy and divine was fucking amazing. I loved that. I dove in head first to that maiden, mother, crone idea because I could see myself in it so fucking clearly.

Chelle: Let me guess, she got a journal and journaled about it.

Laylla: I probably did. Yeah, no, I have them. I still have them. But but very quickly it doesn't fit. It doesn't fit cuz right now, technically, if we followed that outdated cycle,

Chelle: We're crones.

Laylla: We're crones. I don't feel like I'm a crone.

Chelle: No, we're not. We are not crones. We have no business being crones.

Laylla: Exactly. So there's the first problem is that these were written when these ideas came about when women hit puberty very early and they got married early and had children early.

Chelle: And also died very early.

Laylla: Exactly. And this doesn't fit. Plus our idea of what woman is, of what femininity is is also tainting.

Chelle: It's not. Yep, it's it's very very different.

Laylla: And I know a lot of women that don't get a period, don't have a uterus anymore or never did, couldn't have children, don't want to have children. There's so much about this that doesn't mirror.

Chelle: Fit. Yeah.

Laylla: Yeah. And so we're kind of working with it in fluid ideas. And like when you and I talk about it, when we work with the idea of goddess, we mean this energy of reception, of creation, of life, of growing, of making, of being, of seeking, all these things. And you don't have to be a woman to do those. We all have this in us. It's a range of feelings and being and doing and

Chelle: We talked about the same thing when we when we were wrapping up with the god about how you can have that that male energy, that god energy, that that male warrior energy and be female. The same damn thing. You can have that nurture, that mother, that female warrior aspect and not necessarily be female.

Laylla: Right, and not be a mother, not even have a uterus. You know, you don't have to have any of that to have that mother energy, that giving, that receptive, that taking care of things kind of energy.

Chelle: For me, I think that goes back to your spirituality. It is your soul work. It's not this flesh pot work that we're doing. You know, I I I am here in this like meat suit, but that's got nothing to do with my spirit and my soul and my spirituality. The meat suit is just secondary. So you know, maybe this year or this seven year cycle of my life I'm really riding that male energy. And then maybe the next seven year cycle I'm really riding that female energy.

Laylla: I'm being so good right now.

Chelle: You're an asshole. You're an asshole.

Laylla: I'm sorry. I'm a 12 year old boy. I can't help it.

Chelle: You're going through your your young god phase right now.

Laylla: That's right. So even though I found the idea of maiden, mother, crone, warrior very fucking empowering

Chelle: You've also learned to find the young god, the warrior and the sage. Yes.

Laylla: I really like you'll see these aspects named many many different things and you'll hear the fourth phase of the goddess or some people would say it's the third phase because some people will say this warrior phase comes after the mother phase and before the crone phase, but it's the fourth phase. Confusing, I know, but

Chelle: It's wherever you want it to be.

Laylla: It's wherever you want it to be. But some of the names I heard for that fourth phase, the warrior phase are queen. I've heard enchantress. I've heard mega. I've heard so many different things to refer to that warrior aspect as well as the other three. And actually there's one that I really like. If I was going to rename like if everybody was like, hey Laylla, it's your turn to name something forever in paganism and witchcraft. I would rename the triple aspect of the god and goddess to the same thing and I really like seeker, maker, sage.

Chelle: But you're still forgetting that fourth phase.

Laylla: I 'm not because there's the warrior phase. It 's that fourth phase, that hidden phase, but we all default to the triple, right? It's the triple crescent of the moon, the triple god, the triple goddess. So if I was going to rename the triple, it would be seeker, maker, sage. And then I would keep the warrior aspect the same. And I would use that for both.

Chelle: Right. I actually look at that fourth phase of the goddess as the dark face of the goddess and let me tell you why. I think part of it is because I do associate it with the dark moon, the new moon, but also because that warrior spirit is much darker sometimes, not always, but that warrior spirit is is is sometimes a lot darker than say your maiden aspect or your mother aspect. You know, that warrior aspect is getting down to the nitty gritty and sometimes fighting the good fight and that is kind of a a dark thing comparably. So so I've always looked at that fourth face as the dark face of the goddess.

Laylla: Yep, exactly. You got it. The way we commonly make a symbol for the triple goddess is waxing crescent, full moon, waning crescent. Each piece represents one part of the goddess. So naturally the part that you don't see, the part directly behind the full moon, the dark moon or the new moon is the hidden face, the fourth face of the goddess. So that's how it got its name because it's the face that you don't see, but is still very much a major component of the whole cycle.

Chelle: Yeah. So I look at it as maiden, the maiden, the mother, the crone, and the dark face of the goddess.

Laylla: If I was going to call myself that though, like if I was going to say I'm in my dark face stage, it just doesn't

Chelle: Look out, bitches.

Laylla: If I tell you I'm in my dark goddess face

Chelle: I'm turning the dark face of the moon to you right now. Beware. Yeah. Okay, all right, sure, it could work. We can we can make it work, Shell. We'll make it work.

Laylla: We'll make it work. We'll make it work.

Chelle: And I like that too because it is the dark aspect of the moon, the dark face of the goddess. It's the one that's secret. It's that secret face that we didn't talk about. Back 20 years ago when I was teaching the class on the fourth face of the goddess, people didn't know about that saying, hey, you know, you've got the waxing, the waning, and the full, but what about the new moon? What about the dark moon? They were like

Laylla: That mystery, that that that I don't want to say hidden. Hidden might not be the right word I'm thinking, but

Chelle: It is hidden and it wasn't talked about for a very long time. It wasn't even part of the conversation.

Laylla: Yeah, yeah, and that's how I see that that aspect.

Chelle: Yeah. I do too and especially when you're talking about stereotypical traditional womanhood, traditional femininity, it was just maiden. Oh, you got your period. Now you've got a baby and your mother. Now you're barren and you're a crone. Right, your menopause, now you're a crone. And that hidden face, it's that new moon, that dark face, that hidden face is that quiet warrior woman that's that's hiding. A lot of times women in that patriarchal society had to hide that.

Laylla: Had to hide, yeah.

Chelle: So they had to hide that warrior spirit. If you had that energy, that strength, that passion, you had to hide it. You had to keep that chick quiet.

Laylla: Yep. Yep.

Chelle: So these are outdated. These very quickly got outdated for a lot of different reasons. So we're trying to make them fit in today's world. And you can if you look at them as mother as maker, maiden as seeker, a maiden as a seeker is perfect because that's what you're doing when you're in that young phase of life. You're seeking knowledge, you're seeking experiences, you're seeking new things, you're you're seeking out everything in the world whether you're a maiden or youth, right?

Laylla: And then, you know, as far as as the mother phase, like you said, maker, actually I I prefer creator, but that could be you're a damn carpenter and you build shit. Like creating is creating just because I chose to create a baby and you chose to create a building doesn't negate either, you know? A a creator is a creator. Maybe you're an artist and you create art. Like I don't know, that's your creative phase. Yeah, no, I get it. I get it.

Chelle: Exactly. Yep. Exactly. And and Maybe I smoked a little weed tonight. Maybe I created a whole garden of cannabis. Um but

Laylla: Also true.

Chelle: Yeah. And you can be these at any stage in your life. You can be a creator at any point. I'm past the mother stage. I'm I don't feel like I'm in the crone stage.

Laylla: We're still maidens. Who are we kidding?

Chelle: Right, but I just helped to create a whole pagan community that's going wonderfully. It's amazing.

Laylla: And I love it.

Chelle: That's still creator goddess energy. That's still creator god energy. That's the spark of creation, that's passion and energy and and adding these two divine things together. And so being a sage, being someone with knowledge, that sage can also happen at any time. Like we talked with the god, there's more like a sliding scale, that whole circle, the circle of life.

Laylla: The circle of life. I think with this maiden aspect we want to definitely point out that the seeker is probably the best association because you're in that You know, I looked at my first steps into witchcraft and and you know, those first several years is kind of like my maiden phase.

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: So you know, that was the time where I read all I could and and I practiced everything I could even if I shouldn't and I tried everything I could even if I shouldn't because that was what I felt that maiden aspect was. And I I came into witchcraft all those years ago kind of wanting to walk that path of the goddess for lack of a better thing. I probably creating something or making it up, but you know, kind of starting even though Well, I guess I was in the maiden phase of my life at that point, but I I wanted to walk that path in those steps of going from that seeker to kind of that teacher to that more wise elder for lack of a better word. You know, I wanted to do that.

Chelle: And it so happened that we entered into witchcraft at those phases in our life as we were maidens, as we were seekers and grew up in that craft.

Laylla: But I think I would have taken that path even if I came into it at this age. You know what I'm saying?

Chelle: Yes, and yeah, that's exactly the point I wanted to make. Where I was going with that is that you can do that. These cycles, these phases aren't just the phase of your life from childhood to adulthood to cronehood. You can enter these phases at any time. It's like the moon changing every month. The moon is maiden, mother, crone, dark face of the goddess every month. You too can go through these cycles at any time in your life. If you're starting something new, you are the seeker, you are the maiden. As you grow in that craft, you are now the maker, the mother. Now you're ready to teach other people and to give that craft to others. You're now the sage, the crone. And you can do that multiple times in your life just like the moon.

Laylla: Absolutely. I mean, even at 50 years old right now, I have no problem starting over as a maiden. Let's do this. You know what I mean? It's just like you said, it just so happened that we happen to be at that same associated age, but I'm ready to maiden my shit out right now.

Chelle: Well, let me tell you that dark face, that warrior goddess, the enchantress, that fiery spirit, I got a lot of that going on. And this is what happens when you're in different phases.

Laylla: But going to going back to something that you said earlier when we started talking is that these kind of weave through too. It doesn't always go in order. Sometimes you're going to start out at one or the other and and and it doesn't have to go in order.

Chelle: Kind of like how my one kid skipped from maiden to crone to mother. Happens. People do things their own way.

Laylla: Yeah, and I think I grew up as sage to mother and now maybe I'm the seeker. I don't know.

Chelle: You know, and and I was actually going to say something kind of like that, not relevant to you, but you're so right. You know how there's always those kids? Have you ever had like that cousin where someone's like, well, they're an old soul?

Laylla: Yeah.

Chelle: That they're an old soul. I think those people are born in their crone and sage stage.

Laylla: Yeah, different episode, but yeah.

Chelle: Yeah, with the people that Absolutely different episode, but like the people that they say are an old soul, I think they're just born in a phase that doesn't match their age.

Laylla: I think so too. Yeah. And we can get stuck in phases. We all know someone that's stuck at that youth, maiden or seeker stage and never really gets out of it.

Chelle: Laylla's really a 12 year old boy forever.

Laylla: I really am. What else can I do about it? You love me anyway.

Chelle: I do. I do.

Laylla: But back to my 12 year old boy and back to the maiden, back to the seeker stage, the idea of this passion. Like we were saying, you can start this at any time. You don't you don't have to be that age. When you were first into witchcraft, whatever age you came into it, it's that seeking of knowledge, that being willing to try new things, willing to fail.

Chelle: Well, in that new beginning is in that burst of newness. And I I felt like coming into witchcraft that I was in that phase. Like it just felt natural.

Laylla: Oh, yeah. It's anytime you start learning something new, it's wonderful to start with that burst of fresh energy, that spring, that's everything popping up and growing energy is is fantastic. She's the fool. She's the one that says, yes, I do want to go on this adventure. Yes, I do want to do this new thing.

Chelle: Consequences be damn.

Laylla: Exactly. Yeah, let's jump in. Let's walk off this cliff without even looking. Exactly. Yeah, she's ready to start all of that. So she's the archetype that is fresh beginnings, curiosity, potential. She's the waxing moon. She's spring. She's Ostara and to some she's Persephone. Persephone is one of those goddesses where you can see her as mother or as maiden depending on which phase she's in.

Chelle: Or what phase you're in.

Laylla: Or what phase you're in, right? So you can see Persephone in the springtime as maiden. She's the mother in summer and she is the queen of the underworld, the queen of death. She's also the crone.

Chelle: You know, I I do when I think of the maiden aspect, more often than not, Eostre comes to mind just because of that association with the spring and the newness, in the the starting fresh because as much as we say, you know, you can cycle back through these phases, that's exactly what going back to the maiden phases, it's kind of that start fresh. And, you know, there been a couple times after divorce or two that, you know, sometimes you got to kick it back to that maiden phase and kind of start fresh. So I very much think of Eos Star because I associate it with spring in the new beginnings and Ostara and and and all of that.

Laylla: Eos Star, Ostara, Persephone as maiden, Iris, Athena, Diana, the virgin goddesses can be seen as the maidens.

Chelle: But again, any goddess that you follow, you can always just call upon that goddess's maiden aspect, you know?

Laylla: Right. If you're looking for a goddess and if you're working with a goddess and you want to call in her younger aspect, if you're looking for new beginnings, if you're looking for

Chelle: Call Bast in her kitten form.

Laylla: Uh, is that a good idea? That that really doesn't sound like a good idea. I feel like I would end up getting clawed. The kitten that's constantly biting and clawing, yeah.

Chelle: I I don't know why that just popped into my head, but all I could think of is Bast as a kitten and like, oh shit.

Laylla: But that's a good point because sometimes being the maiden means you're going to get clawed. You're going to grab that kitten when you

Chelle: They're going to climb up your curtains. Yeah. Shit in your shoe. Yeah.

Laylla: Yeah, you're going to underestimate an opponent. You're going to underestimate an ally. There's things that happen when you're a maiden sometimes. You know, you take those risks and it doesn't turn out.

Chelle: Exactly.

Laylla: Being resilient enough to recover from that and being okay with taking a new direction and starting

Chelle: It's kind of part of the trial.

Laylla: Yeah, it's part of being that maiden. The youth bounce, right? They go out. They play football. They play soccer.

Chelle: I don't have that anymore. I don't have that youth bounce anymore.

Laylla: They go rock climbing. They fall down. Then they go out and they party and they get up at 6:00 a.m. to go to work the next day. And it's no problem. The youth bounce. So go ahead and call on that energy when you need to be able to do too much, I guess, or when you need to

Chelle: Have a fresh start, when you need to kind of have no limits, no boundaries, and kind of more of a care-free spirit than a calculated spirit.

Laylla: Oh, I love that. Yes. When you need that encouragement of open eyes and an open heart, call the maiden, call the seeker.

Chelle: Cast into the wind.

Laylla: Throw caution to the wind. That's exactly right. She's got ambition. She's ready to start new things. She wants it all. The world is her oyster. So if you're starting an adventure, call on the maiden aspect of the goddess. So we've talked about where the maiden mother Crone came from and the somewhat newish idea of the fourth phase of the goddess. It's not really that new. It's just not as talked about as the three phases.

Chelle: Non-mainstream.

Laylla: Non-mainstream, kind of like us.

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: So stay tuned next week where we will be focusing more on the mother, the maker, the creator aspect of the goddess.

Chelle: I just want to make some clay now that I think about the mother aspect.

Laylla: Why clay? What makes you think about clay with a mother aspect?

Chelle: Um, it was a ritual we did one time way back in the day with our community in the Southern tier of New York and it was making these little goddess figurines out of clay. And we like made these gorgeous little things. Oh my god, you have yours still. That's like 25 years old.

Laylla: I think it's older than that.

Chelle: And we made them and it was so wonderful.

Laylla: It's funny because as soon as you said clay, I was like

Chelle: You jumped up.

Laylla: I'm going to talk about those goddesses we made. I still have the Venus of Willendorf clay goddess I made when we did that community thing way back in the day.

Chelle: I too too it. And then you started talking about it. So I jumped up out of my chair. I had to go get it. She is always on my altar, always on my altar.

Laylla: I love that. So yeah, that's what that's what I think about. I think about that that digging into clay and creating.

Chelle: Me too. See, that's why we're besties.

Laylla: That and a million other reasons.

Chelle: So many. But yeah, I thought about that too and that part of that maker, that creator energy and I I love that so much. So yes, we will talk about the the creator aspect of the goddess on our next episode.

Laylla: In the meantime, be cognizant that little kitten Bast might be coming after us in the form of the Yule cat. Ooh.

Chelle: That's true, the Yule cat. And if you go over to our Etsy shop, etsy.com/shop/backonthebroomstick, we do have an ornament that does have the Yule cat on it.

Laylla: Oh my god, we have an Etsy shop. Is Bast nuts?

Chelle: It's really great. Thank you all, everyone who has made purchases at our Etsy shop. It's very very cool. I'm very excited. Please send us pictures of you with our merch, wearing the sweatshirts, wearing the t-shirts, writing in the journals.

Laylla: You know, of course somebody had to buy a journal.

Chelle: Yeah. One of them was me. But yes, thank you all so much for bearing with us as we ironed out all the kinks of our new store that we opened during Mercury in retrograde.

Laylla: Why? Why do we need to do that? We're You know, what it is is that Laylla is such a techie that she really thinks that she she can somehow beat retrograde.

Chelle: I did. I did beat I too first.

Laylla: And you know, she could three quarters beat it and then that last quarter whoops she in the ass.

Chelle: I was doing so good. I was going to be victorious. No, yeah, Mercury retrograde said, no, sweetheart, I am way bigger than you are.

Laylla: In the winner is not Laylla, not me. No, but we we we persisted and I appreciate everyone who pointed out any issues that they had.

Chelle: And all the kinks are now worked out. Oh, please don't say that. That means I'm going to find three more by the time this episode airs. But we're working on it. So if you do run into a problem, let us know, but I'm pretty sure we've got everything taken care of and there will be new merch probably up in the next uh the next week or so. So thank you again for your support. We really appreciate it. And don't forget just like last year, we are doing our Yule Winter Solstice card exchange again. If you send us a holiday card before December 21st, we will send you one back. And this year we'll be sending out cards that we designed ourselves. So check out the show notes for our post office box address and get us those holiday cards and we will send you one back. In the meantime, be wise, be wicked.

Laylla: And keep it witchy.
