Laylla: Welcome to Back on the Broomstick, a modern witches' spoken word grimoire, where two witchy friends from way back are reconnecting to their pagan roots after a long period of mundanity. We're rewalking the path of the wise and trying out all the latest spells, rituals, and magical theory in today's witchcraft and pagan practices. So grab your wand and your incense, your cauldron and your crystals, and join us as we get back on the broomstick.

Laylla: Hi, and welcome to Back on the Broomstick. I'm Laylla, and this is part five of our series on deity. This episode focuses on Mother, the full moon, the maker aspect of the Goddess.

Chelle: And I'm Chelle, and I feel like this is an aspect that we've spent a lot of time in in our personal lives. I feel like I've spent a lot of time in in in the mother aspect of the Goddess. So, I feel like this is something I can speak to very well.

Laylla: You know, I'm not surprised that you say that because I think when most people, witches too, I think when most of us think about the Goddess, we think of the full moon. We think of the great Mother. We think of the earth Goddess. We think of Gaia. It feels to me like that time of life, that that middle phase, the main bulk of our lives, the mother phase that the Goddess encompasses, is highly prized in our culture. Young people want to be adults, young adults, and they start acting like it from a young age, and older people are always chasing that vitality and youth and powerful nurturing of that full-grown, I'm an adult, I'm fully capable phase of life. And maybe partly because of the value that we place on that younger, mid-phase of life, that when many of us think of the Goddess, we go straight to the mother, the powerful full moon aspect, the full moon Goddess.

Chelle: Maybe without realizing it, because I think that some people may not realize that that that full moon is that mother aspect, and they're just they're all about that that phase without even realizing it.

Laylla: Yeah, that's true. A lot of us are drawn to the full moon. We like to do magic under the full moon. It feels very mystical and magical, and I think a lot of the mother Goddesses feel that way too. They feel very powerful and magical and mystical. I think we're drawn to that.

Chelle: Well, and if you kind of look at the science of it, being made up of like 70% water, I think that phase in a literal and spiritual sense does affect us the most.

Laylla: And like you said, some people might not be aware that the full moon in at least a lot of witchcraft, I wouldn't say all, but a lot of witchcraft, particularly if, like Chelle and I, you have Wiccan DNA, you'll be familiar with the maiden, mother, crone archetype of the Goddess, of all Goddesses. It's not just the overarching Goddess that has these different phases of life. It's each individual Goddess as well, as well as the Goddess that's within all of us, all people. And the full moon is representative of the mother aspect of the Goddess.

Chelle: When I think of mother Goddesses, like we've said, a lot of these Goddesses have all three aspects, all four aspects, but if I'm specifically thinking mother Goddesses, first thing I go to is Demeter.

Laylla: Demeter is definitely the mother. If you think of the mother as Gaia, Demeter's a great one to go to because she very much encompasses that earth mother, mother of the harvest. I mean, she made the whole earth go cold and nothing at all grow when her daughter left. So, she's very much an earth mother, a growth mother, a mother of all things.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: Any Goddess that you associate with the full moon is going to be a mother Goddess. Historically, mother Goddess, because a lot of this was a fertility religion, this was an agricultural religion that followed the cycles and the seasons, the mother literally meant giver of life, birth giver, person who gave birth to all things in the world, everything. And that was revered, this creator of life, the creation. That's something that is found or was found in cultures all over the world. So, not just Demeter will be a Goddess of motherhood. All religions, all cultures will recognize that archetype of mother and will have a Goddess or some type of representation of that. You'll have Yemaya. She is the mother of all things. She's an Orisha in Santeria. She's the Goddess of motherhood, symbol of nurturing, and she's also associated with water and the moon, much like a lot of other mother Goddesses. There's Isis and Hathor. There's Bast can be seen. I know you talked about her as kitten Bast, which might be slightly blasphemous, but, you know, she's a she's a mother Goddess. Hera is a mother Goddess.

Chelle: And I've also, you know, seen that reflected in my own life, that maiden aspect in my younger days and and and that mother aspect as I became a mother and kind of transitioning into that crone aspect, which we won't speak of at this point. And when you kind of look at it as phases of your own life, you can see that every Goddess can have those those multi-faces, those multi-aspects. You know, we may focus on Goddesses like Demeter for being a mother-type Goddess, but, you know, I can see that aspect in Hecate too, if you look at it in reflection of your own life, you can see that in every other aspect of the Goddess, I think.

Laylla: The mother aspect, if you look at it as a phase of your life, if you look at some of these books and what people are saying, the mother phase of life is roughly 23 to 55, right, if you're if you're looking at that time.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: And that's not just when you can have children. Nowadays, we are separate from that. We know so much more than just fertility, right? And so motherhood, the concept of being mother, how often have you heard Mother Hecate or Mother Lilith? It's seen as a a title. Hecate doesn't even have children, but she is mother.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: She gives that sense of taking care of you, of nurturing, of guiding and training you. Mother is helping you create yourself. Mother doesn't have to be a person who has given birth or given birth to you. Someone can mother you in so many different ways.

Chelle: I really I just I can't help myself sometimes. You know how I am. I have to make a pop culture reference. The same thing is said for Swifties across the land call Taylor Swift mother. Yeah.

Laylla: Right. Mother has become a phrase that means icon, idol, someone you look up to, someone that's teaching and spreading knowledge, someone who has it all.

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: Someone who is giving everything, someone who is giving and creating and is helping their many children, whether that's their fans or students or children or anybody that they're working with. And that mother, their mother, is not the person who gave birth to them, but it is someone who is helping them give birth to themselves, to create.

Chelle: Nurture their spirit.

Laylla: Exactly. So, there is so much that you can do as mother, and you can pull that energy into yourself. And and later in this episode towards the end, we'll give you a spell, ritual on how you can call that mother Goddess energy within yourself so that you can have that creation, that nurturing. Uh, the spell in particular is to help you enforce boundaries. Sometimes your mother needs to help you do that, right?

Chelle: Another act, for lack of a better word, that I associate with mother is you're in that phase of getting stuff done, you know, you get it organized, you get it handled, you move on.

Laylla: Organized, handled, move on. That's motherhood right there.

Chelle: Right? You know, you you get things in order, you set things up for the future, the planner.

Laylla: Practical, resourceful, planning, capable, managing, yeah.

Chelle: Trying to motivate others around you to do the same.

Laylla: The boss, being the boss, being in charge, being the one who handles all the details.

Chelle: The facilitator.

Laylla: Ooh, see, maker as mother as a title, I like it, but damn if facilitator doesn't fit too.

Chelle: Right? Right.

Laylla: Now, in the last episode, you commented on something, and it had me jumping up, going over to my altar, and picking off a Goddess statue. And what you talked about was a clay workshop that we had done in our old community, in our old coven.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: We had gotten together, and this was a group of people, and we were creating Goddess figurines. We were playing with clay, and we were talking about what it meant to be a woman and femininity and womanhood, and we were all kind of just talking about these things. And I created a Venus of Willendorf shape. I still have her. She's pretty old, but she's pretty awesome. And I wanted to talk about that a little bit because when I think of mother Goddess, that's one of the first things I think of is these Venuses, that particularly like the Venus of Willendorf. And what I mean by that are these statues that are 20, 30,000 years old that they have found in different archaeological sites all over the world, and they're named Venus for the Goddess of love, and then the place that they're from, and there's a bunch of them. And basically, they're all very similar in that the fertility aspects are highlighted, exaggerated: big breasts, big belly, big butt, you can see her vulva. What you can't see usually are hands, feet, or face. And the thought is is that these were representatives of fertility, that these were small, handheld statues that would have been common in a household, that people might even have carried with them for good luck, for abundance, for fertility. And you can find those all over the world because the idea of motherhood, of Goddess, all of us, we all have a mother of some type, right? So, that is a concept that was found everywhere.

Chelle: I agree with you. My mind always goes to Gaia, Mother Earth, kind of that base that we all stand on, figuratively and literally.

Laylla: Yeah, and that's exactly what I see these Venuses as because they're round like the earth. They go right to that great Goddess, that mother of all, the earth herself.

Chelle: The facilitator of life.

Laylla: The facilitator of life. The facilitator of all things. Yeah, exactly, exactly. So, she is creator and the facilitator and the maker of things, and she brings all of this out in us, and she can help us to do that and find that strength because mother is someone who finds the strength to do things even when she's dead tired, even when she doesn't want to, even when it's hard. Mom is still there getting you up in the morning, or should be.

Chelle: Handling it.

Laylla: And I know we didn't all have that mom that handled it and took care of it. I'm talking about the perfect idea of mom, I guess. But we can all call on that energy of the mom who gets up and does these things and takes care of it, takes care of the details, the facilitator. We can call on that archetype.

Chelle: That's genius. I need I need to like trademark that, the facilitator.

Laylla: It sounds just like you, to be honest.

Chelle: Well, yeah, but, you know, as you thrive in certain phases, you know, there's also a time and place to transition, so.

Laylla: And you were talking about how the mother and we're still in like the mother phase of our life, and you're talking about transitioning to crone phase, and I think that there's still that fourth face of the Goddess, and it intertwines a lot with the mother phase and the crone phase, sometimes with the maiden phase as well, but this warrior phase, this queen phase of womanhood, of Goddess.

Chelle: It kind of floats between the mother and the crone, I feel.

Laylla: When you look at these representations, her season is autumn. Like the mother Goddess, her season is summer. It's fertility, it's growth, it's the full moon. And the warrior Goddess, the fourth phase of the Goddess, is the new moon, but her season is fall, is autumn.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: Still powerful, still strong and glorious in its own way, but definitely moving out of the fertility phase and into more of the I think even more of the facilitator, like the boss facilitator, like the next level.

Chelle: The boss of the boss.

Laylla: That's right.

Chelle: The boss of the boss.

Laylla: And you can be in these phases at any time in your life. You can be 15 and be in the mother phase or the crone phase, and you can be 37 and be in the maiden phase. It doesn't have to be tied to an age. That's just a general idea.

Chelle: I think when when you are working with this particular phase, the mother phase, you kind of need to be prepared for kind of that stern truth that this is the way it is, this is what we've got to do. I think working with the mother phase is similar to shadow work. It's where you kind of have to dig deep and just get stuff done.

Laylla: I think so too. I think it's also a nurturing phase because your mother is there telling you to do your homework, brush your teeth, go to bed on time, but she's also doing that to take care of you. She's riding your ass, but it's for your own good, right? You know, you're cranky with your mom because she's making you follow all these rules, but at the same time, she's very nurturing. She's the one that's going to wrap you in a blanket. She's going to kiss the boo-boo. She's going to give you the words of encouragement when you need them, and she's going to kick your ass when you need that.

Chelle: And it's also that fertile phase, and that doesn't necessarily mean children either. That could be ideas or actions, um, plans, um, implementing things, acting on things. Again, it's it's the the phase to get stuff done. You plant the seed and watch it grow, and and, you know, you nurture that and and and build that up. So, just because we call it the fertile stage, fertility doesn't necessarily mean babies.

Laylla: The maiden, she's the fool. She's ready to take that leap. She's got the ideas. She's the one that took the chance and planted the seed. Now, the mother is the empress tarot card. You know, if you keep up with the tarot analogy, the empress is very much that mother of all things. She's the one of fullness and growth and ripening and bringing new things into the world and doing that work. And much like the death card doesn't mean death, the empress card doesn't mean pregnancy and birth in a literal sense. It's bringing something new, something fabulous, something that you yourself have nurtured and grown and created into the world. She is that maker, that becomer, that creator. She's tending that idea. She's growing it. She's nurturing it. She's making it flourish, become whatever it needs to be. And so she's taking that momentum, that potential of the maiden, and she's bringing it to fulfillment. She's bringing it to abundance. She's bringing it to a place where everything is possible because she has put in that work. She is doing that work. And, you know, the mother can also be a fierce protector. That is another side of the mom is she can very much be the one who beats your butt when you have done something wrong and fiercely defends you if someone is coming at you.

Chelle: I also I feel that that's where that kind of crossover of the dark face, the the warrior face of the Goddess can kind of crossover because you get that I don't want to say fight or flight because that's not it, but it's kind of that that rage that only a mother can muster. Like there's a rage that only a mother can muster.

Laylla: I think it's distinctly part of the mother Goddess. I think the warrior Goddess is tough, and she is definitely strong and powerful, but I think the mother as defender and as protector is like you said, it's a different kind of power. It's a different kind of protection. When your mother is that pissed off and that ready to protect you, that's fierce. You know, there's a reason why they say don't go near a mother and her cubs because that's dangerous. And you can call that power. There are Goddesses that carry that energy, and that energy is dangerous, and it's dark, and it's effective. And you can call upon that when you need it, whether you need it to be kicking your butt or you need it to be kicking someone else's butt. It's there when you call these mother Goddesses.

Chelle: But it's definitely an unmistakable rage that only a mom has.

Laylla: And I do think that sometimes, and I can think of rituals that we have done where you have to be cautious when you call upon that kind of rage because when someone is defending their creation, someone or something that they have created, like a mother protecting her child, that type of energy can spiral out of control very, very quickly. If you're going to call that kind of energy, you better know what you're asking for, and you better know why, how, who, what, have all your details because once you release that kind of energy, it's it's very, very strong. So, mother energy can be extremely powerful.

Chelle: It definitely can, and I I do recall a few rituals, and I will say that sometimes you do get a little surprise at what can come with that deep energy. But I do think that it is everyone should work with that energy. It is definitely another face that you need to, you know, we talked last time about, you know, you kind of have to face that maiden aspect. You also have to face that mother aspect, whether it be the loving and nurturing side or the bear protecting her cubs side. You do kind of have to face all of these faces because truly it's just a reflection of facing yourself.

Laylla: Ooh, yeah. You say that, and that really gets me thinking about, you know that book, The Witch Wound?

Chelle: Yes.

Laylla: I also know there's like the mother wound. A lot of people have a mother wound.

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: There's problems, there's issues. We have a lot of hurt and pain sometimes connected to our mothers, even if we get along with them, even if we have a great relationship with our mother. Sometimes there's—

Chelle: Stuff.

Laylla: Yeah, there are things that we need to face, and and you said that you can treat it like shadow work. Talking to the mother Goddess, talking to the mother within you, talking to your mother, the archetype of your mother, sometimes that can be very difficult but extremely healing if you can go through that process and face that mother energy, face that mother wound.

Chelle: And if your mother has passed, maybe actually having that conversation with your mother.

Laylla: Mhm. And if that can be difficult, you can ask a mother goddess to sit with you while you work through that. So, maybe Mother Hecate is kicking your ass and you need to face some demons with your own mother in this life, you could ask Mother Ceridwen or Freya or another mother goddess, maybe someone who's a little softer, I'm not sure. To hold to hold your hand through it. To hold your hand. And so you can have the dark mother goddess that's kicking your butt and the kind mother goddess that is holding your hand, telling you you can do this. You know, sometimes you need the good, the bad, the little devil, the little angel, one on each shoulder. And the mother goddess can be all of that for you.

Now, we're going to talk about Hecate again, and I'd like to talk about her in this context because she is not, as far as I know, I don't think Hecate the goddess has any children.

Chelle: No. She has her dogs.

Laylla: She has her dogs. Aw. I kind of love that. But she is mother. She is Mother Hecate to many, many witches. She is the goddess of the witches. She is mother goddess. She is Mother Hecate. And I love her for that because she doesn't have actual children. And too often we get caught up in the idea that that's the only interpretation of this aspect. And yes, I have children and you have children, and that is part of it. But shit, I'm not just a mom. There's so much more.

Chelle: That's why I like facilitator better.

Laylla: Facilitator, maker, they're such good terms for this phase because the creation aspect of it.

Chelle: You could be an artist and be in your mother phase because you are creating, or you could, you know, you could be a carpenter and be in your mother phase.

Laylla: And how many of us are creating our witch era right now, right? How many of us are creating a study group or a coven or a circle or a community, or are just creating our very first Book of Shadows? So many of us are in the magical mother stage right now, the the witchy phase of the full moon, of full power, of of coming into that self, that witchy goddesshood.

Chelle: Nurturing your spirit.

Laylla: Yeah, exactly. Ooh, nurturing your spirit. And we need that, especially with the holidays coming up. It's a wonderful time of year, but who doesn't need a little extra nurturing this time of year? You're going to see all your family. You should mother yourself. Take care of It's what your mom would want. Take care of yourself.

Chelle: Exactly. Exactly.

Laylla: All right. So, we promised you guys a ritual to awaken the mother goddess, to awaken that energy within you. And this is pretty simple. All you need is about a tablespoon of water, just a little bit, and a tiny pinch of salt, and a candle. Preferably red for the goddess, but it could also be white. And to be honest, any candle's fine. So, what you'll do is gather your items and find a spot where you'll be able to sit undisturbed for about 15 minutes.

So, first you're going to center and ground, however you want to do that. And then just breathe. Just try and relax. Light the candle and continue relaxing by gazing into the flame of the candle. Just let your eyes be soft and gentle. Gaze at the flame and just continue to breathe slowly and normally and just focus on the idea of relaxation.

When you're ready, you're going to cup your left hand as if you're going to drink out of it. And then take your tablespoon of water and put it in the center of your palm. Then mix in the pinch of salt so that you have a a tiny little pool in your palm. Bring your hand close enough to the candle so that you can see the flame flickering in the water that you have on your palm. And then just kind of softly look at that for a little bit. Watch the play of light on the water.

While you're watching that water, place your right hand over your heart. Continue to gaze at the water in your left hand and breathe deeply. Nice deep breath that expands your whole rib cage. And as you're doing that, imagine as you're breathing that you're breathing and expanding just like the full moon rising. That your whole body is encompassing that full moon, that bright moon energy.

While you're envisioning the full moon and breathing, say something like, "Mother of waters, mother of blood, mother of bone, awaken within me." Stir the water in your palm with your finger clockwise and whisper, "By the waters of life, I call the mother home." Then place your hand, your right hand, over the water in your left, and gather the energy. As you're speaking, picture energy gathering like the full moon in your center. Picture it growing and rising, becoming white and bold and beautiful like the full moon in the sky. And push that energy into your cupped hands, into the water between them.

And say something like, "She who builds, she who bears, she who protects what she has grown, rise in me." Let that energy gather. Push it into the water in your palm. Imagine all that type of mother energy, fierce and loving, firm and generous, gentle, strong. Imagine everything that is good mother strong creation maker energy and push it into that water in your palms. And then say, "I am the maker. I am the full moon among the stars. I am the one who decides."

Then dip your right finger into the water in your palm, touch your forehead, your throat, and your heart, and say, "By mind, by voice, by heart, mother awaken within me." Then just rub your hands together with that remaining water. Picture your hands, strong hands, a mother's hands, a maker's hands, hands that do, hands that nurture, hands that set limits, and hands that also break them. Place your hands palm up in front of you and let that energy that you raised fill them. Let it fill you with balance, with strength. Let it leave you refreshed, nurtured, comforted, strengthened, knowing who you are and knowing who you're going to be and where you're going. That mother energy is strong within you, that nurturing strength. So, let that energy flow over you, flow through your whole body. When you're ready, thank those energies, blow out the candle, and now you can walk in that energy, in that full moon mother goddess energy.

So, that's a spell that you can do to call the mother goddess, to help bring that energy in yourself whenever you need a little bit of extra strength or encouragement, or whenever you need a, you know, a little bit of pampering from your mom. And while you're pampering yourself, you should send us a winter solstice card or a Yule card because we'll send you one back if you do, and that would make you happy. So, you should take care of yourself in that way, I think.

Chelle: I loved our Yule card exchange last year, and I'm so excited we brought it back this year. So, folks, remember, PO Box 106, Salem, Massachusetts, 01970. Send us a card. We'll send you one back.

Laylla: So, with that lovely transition, we are going to phase out of the mother goddess, and we are going to move into a couple other topics coming up before we finish with the deity series. We'll get into sugar plums and mistletoe and holly and sacred fires and-

Chelle: I'll be honest, the minute Thanksgiving is over, I am ready to decorate. I am in the mood. I am holly and jolly, and I think it's time we talked about Yule.

Laylla: I do know that Sunnwait has been going on for a couple weeks now. That is the somewhat new Norse tradition of every Friday or every Sunday, but once a week, they light a new candle and has a different rune as they go through the weeks going up to the winter solstice. And you can certainly start that at any time. So, we do have some information from last year, I think, but I'll put up a little information on Sunnwait if you're interested in that. But all sorts of Yule things are happening, and I'm pretty excited.

Chelle: All right. I got to go because I need a candy cane.

Laylla: All right. Well, on that note, be holly, be jolly.

Chelle: And keep it witchy.
