Welcome to Back on the Broomstick, a modern witches' spoken word grimoire, where two witchy friends from way back are reconnecting to their pagan roots after a long period of mundanity. Where we're walking the path of the wise and trying out all the latest spells, rituals, and magical theory in today's witchcraft and pagan practices. So grab your wand and your incense, your cauldron and your crystals, and join us as we get back on the broomstick.

Laylla: Hi, and welcome to Back on the Broomstick. I'm Laylla, and on this episode, we'll be completing our deity series. We'll be ending strong with the fourth face of the goddess, the aspect that is very often unknown, forgotten, minimized, or demonized.

Chelle: And I'm Chelle, and I'm super excited to kind of wrap up this series. You know, I've liked these serieses that we've done, and this has been, I feel like, a particularly long one, but I think this was good because we've gone over the faces of the god, we have gone over the face and the aspect of the goddess, and I think this is a really solid one to finish with because I think it's the lesser known, and I think that this is the phase that kind of empowers people. And so, I think this is a good one to hang off with.

Laylla: I agree. I think that the fourth face of the goddess, the dark face, the dark moon archetype, sometimes called the warrior, sometimes called the queen or the sovereign. I I agree, this is a great time of year for her. Her energy is fire, it's transformation, it's activism, it's speaking up, it's being who you are. So, I think Imbolc is a great time of year for her. And I also love these series. They were fantastic, and I really like diving into deity into the maiden, mother, crone, kind of Wiccan origins, and the youth, warrior, sage of the god, and talking about how they fit into modern times because those are older ideas.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: Those are the ideas that came from ancient people's ideas of birth, reproduction, and death. You know, that's what they saw in their lives, in the animals around them, in nature, in the cycles of the season. And so, it it was very important. That was important. And I liked exploring what that means magically and in real life outside of that reproductive cycle. There's so much more to these aspects than just that one limited idea.

Chelle: And so much you can relate those aspects to current life in our current time. You know, yeah, those those are ancient practices and ancient beliefs, but but absolutely can be translated to, you know, our modern life in our modern time.

Laylla: We mentioned that maiden, mother, crone and youth, warrior, sage, not only are those three aspects limiting, but the words themselves don't cover everything that it can be. There doesn't have to be gendered, first of all. And we like the idea of seeker, maker, sovereign, sage because it it gives you more of an idea of what that aspect covers.

Chelle: And I liked that that we also talked about how you're not pigeonholed into an age. You know, just because you're young doesn't put you in that youth phase, and just because you're old doesn't put you in that sage or crone stage.

Laylla: Right. Right.

Chelle: So, you know, I think it was a good way to convey all of the aspects in a way that relates to us right now in this time.

Laylla: Talking about the sovereign aspect of the goddess, the the queen aspect, the warrior, the dark face, she's very often the forgotten face. She's very often the one that people don't mention. And and I think there's a couple different reasons for that.

Chelle: They should be scared. No, I'm just kidding.

Laylla: Well, honestly, they should be. And I think they are. A lot of us grew up in patriarchal religions of one type or another. And these ideas have infiltrated even old folk stories, even stories of the goddess have a patriarchal blanket on them. And so, that aspect of pushing things down that they don't understand or don't like, the warrior goddess was the first one they wanted to get rid of. They just wanted her reduced to reproduction. And so, hiding that face was easy for them because they were afraid of it, and you should be afraid of it. She's powerful. This goddess, this fourth face, she shows up in your life when you choose you, when you choose yourself, especially if you do it in a way that not only helps you, but it helps your community and the people around you. That's taking that power and being sovereign.

Chelle: That is warrior goddess energy 110 right there.

Laylla: Thank you. Yes, that is you being sovereign. And these powers that be, they don't like that. And so, they hid that. They shoved it down. When I first found the goddess, I I loved being like, "Holy shit, there's a feminine energy to balance the masculine." I I needed that balance. I wanted that balance. But meditating on that symbol, it almost hit me like fucking lightning when I was looking at this triple goddess symbol, the waxing moon, the full moon, and the waning moon, and this goddess.

Chelle: Where was the dark moon?

Laylla: She Exactly. And maybe because our coven did our esbats on the dark moon, maybe that's why I could feel her energy stronger. But I remember when she came up to me, and her energy was like like a moonless night where it's just stars and black, where it's that dark flame. And she literally said, "What about the dark moon? What about the new moon?"

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: And she was hidden, not hidden necessarily, but back-to-back. The dark moon is back-to-back with the full moon goddess. The warrior goddess and the mother goddess stand together, back-to-back, facing all the challenges. And then, you've got the crone and the maiden on either side, and they make up the four faces of the goddess, the four faces of life.

Chelle: And, you know, I think it took me a little bit longer to kind of grasp that concept because I was so indoctrinated with maiden, mother, crone, you know, the three phases. It it took me a little bit longer, I think, to kind of get on that fourth face than it did you. But when you really kind of break it down, it makes sense. It really makes sense. And we kind of touched on this a little bit before, but that that brings me to say there's probably that same warrior aspect in the god.

Laylla: I really think that there's more parallels between the two of them than we've kind of been led to believe up until now.

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: And that's why I like having the same name as for both of them because it doesn't really matter what gender you are. There's more to it than that.

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: I really like the idea of seeker for the youth, for both, maker for that midlife where you're creating things, whether children, job, career, building your life, that's your maker phase, and then sovereign, that's the next one. That's when you're in that phase where you're maybe moving out of that creating life or creating career, and you're more centered on self. You're centered on what do you want, what things are you doing.

Chelle: I kind of look at it like, you know, you go from that creator to the teacher. But also like that ruler of their own world, ruler of their own destiny.

Laylla: Absolutely. They're that teacher of lived experience. They're not the crone yet, but they've been through it. They've done things, they've got the experience, and now they have time to put that experience and ideas towards something else. This is such a great topic. We're getting carried away, and we've almost forgotten. I was really hoping, Chelle, that you would pull another tarot card at the beginning of this episode, and we're just having so much fun with this topic.

Chelle: We're getting carried away here. No, no, no, no. I I actually have a deck ready. So, so, so, hold, please, on the fourth face of the goddess. We're shifting to tarot, shocking revelation here. Today, I want to pull from the Zodiac Tarot. I really kind of like this tarot, and I got it in a tin, and I love tarot in a tin.

Laylla: Oh, I love things you can put things in.

Chelle: I really do. So, the tin is fabulous. Now, the one thing I'll say about tin decks is they are a little better, especially for folks I see online all the time. People are like, "I got little hands. It's hard to shuffle." Tin decks are perfect because tin decks are like the size of regular playing cards, so they're a little smaller than traditional tarot. But I love this deck. It's got Zodiacs associated with each card, definitely worth looking into. So, I am going to give these cards a little shuffle, shuffle. Give me a second. Send our podcast vibes to our deck. Okay, so, for today, what energy we are working with as a whole is

Laylla: Oh, is that the Queen of Swords? King of Swords?

Chelle: King of Swords. King of Swords. These cards are are very cool. They have very astrological This particular card has the king lit out in a gray, starry night. Now, you and I always kind of pay attention to the way they're facing, the way that that the people are facing.

Laylla: Yes.

Chelle: So, for this card, you're thinking, you know, overall vision and solutions, but with him, he's looking to the left.

Laylla: His left or our left?

Chelle: When I'm looking at him, he is looking to the left.

Laylla: The left of the card? Correct.

Chelle: Correct. So, I take that as he's looking behind him.

Laylla: That's right. Yeah, directionality is one of those details that once you see it, notice it, and start working with it, it can add so much depth to your readings. You know, you and I both love rich details in cards, and I'm just going to real quick go over directionality. Um paying attention to which way the people on the cards are facing can give you some insight into where these energies are lying. So, looking to the left of the card is past.

Chelle: Looking back.

Laylla: Looking straight out at you is present, are looking into the current right now, and then looking to the right of the card is looking into the future.

Chelle: And then I look at it as because there are some cards in some decks where you actually are looking at the person on the card and you're looking at their back, and I look at that as the unknown.

Laylla: Ooh, okay. That's looking at something from a different angle, from a different perspective. So, even these little details in cards

Chelle: Matter.

Laylla: Yeah, can add different layers of richness and and meaning.

Chelle: So, I'm looking at, you know, overall vision, strategy, but you've got to take into account past events to create that strategy. So, I think today, the message overall is what are the things that we've done and how are we using them to move forward? We need to take our past experiences to plot out our our ongoing strategy. So, for looking ahead, you still have to look behind you.

Laylla: Yes. I love the richness of color in this deck. It has very, very beautiful like jewel-tone colors in the images. They're very striking. They stand out. It's very, very pretty. And what I see in this card is the King of Swords is in reds and oranges, and he's standing under a starry sky. I see that you have to look back in order to move forward. You have to have that foundation. And I feel like this is setting boundaries. I feel like this is a card of knowing who you are, setting your boundaries, giving wise counsel to yourself, giving yourself uh good information and permission to set those boundaries and to say, "This is where I'm standing. I know how things have been in the past, and so these are the boundaries I'm setting so that I can move forward." And also coming up to a time of needing those boundaries, needing to know where you stand because there's going to be a moment that tests your integrity coming up in the next week. But I feel a calm confidence in that as well.

Laylla: Yes, knowing who, again, knowing who you are. I agree completely. It's having that calm confidence in yourself, knowing who you are and where your boundaries are, that will allow you to move through that fire of your integrity being tested and keep all of that intact. That's that's what I'm seeing with that card.

Chelle: So, what fire do you need to be moved through is the question of the day.

Laylla: That's the question. And as we've said before, if this card resonates with you, if this is energy for you, go ahead and journal that, take it, move with that. If it doesn't, that's okay.

Chelle: Okay, now that I've interrupted you with tarot again, now I'll let you get back to the fourth face of the goddess.

Laylla: We were just having so much fun. We meant to do this in the beginning. Oh, my goodness. So, fourth face of the goddess. I think the first time I taught a workshop on the fourth face of the goddess was like in Ohio at the Witches' Ball in what was it, '98, '99?

Chelle: Yeah, yeah, yeah. And that was actually the first time I went to Ohio, and we had so much fun. Um by the way, shout-out to our Ohio listeners. Love you, Helen Jojo. But yeah, and and I remember back then thinking, "What what is Laylla talking about, this fourth face of the goddess?"

Laylla: Yeah. And Gail Hamby, one of our wonderful, amazing, fabulous witch mentors, fantastic witch, she wrote a book called The Fourth Face of the Goddess.

Chelle: And that was really my main introduction was actually from Gail. And I mean, I heard your mumblings and rumblings about it, but but when Gail wrote that piece, that was really the first time that I was like, "Oh, oh, I get it now."

Laylla: And her book is some poems and essays and writings on the fourth face of the goddess, you know, claiming that aspect of yourself. And, bonus, in that book is her poem, "Never Again the Burning," that we have done spoken word version of.

Chelle: I love that so much.

Laylla: Yeah, oh, my god, very powerful, very, very powerful. Okay, so, fourth face. Let's talk about this. This is the dark moon phase. This is that warrior phase. This is this is the archetype of do it for you, take no shit, set your boundaries, be strong.

Chelle: I feel like for as much as I it took me a while to kind of get on to this concept back in the day, it's ironic in retrospect because the whole Hecate tie, Hecate really kind of grasps that fourth aspect phase. Yes. As well as the Morrigan. So, when I think of the fourth face, I'm thinking that that's where Hecate shines, man. That's her That's her place.

Laylla: Yeah, and you know what? Everyone's like, "Oh, Hecate, she's a triple-faced goddess, triplicate, triplicate, triplicate." I'm like, "Yeah, but

Chelle: No, no, no, no.

Laylla: She's the goddess of the crossroads, and that's four.

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: And I know with three faces, she can see all four lanes, blah, blah, blah. But it really fits her well, that fourth aspect suits her so well with those four being in the middle of the crossroads. Oh, I love it.

Chelle: Yeah, so, I mean, that's that's really when I think of the fourth face, my mind immediately goes to Hecate. Like I said, I also I feel that that the Morrigan energy uh in that phase as well because I feel that that's very boundary-setting energy. But, you know, I think that that there's other other goddesses that you can think of. Like Athena would be another one I would think of. Just kind of that pushing her way and setting her way. When you when you think of that fourth face, what are some goddesses that come to mind for you? Um Kali is another one I think of. But what are some what are some goddesses you think of?

Laylla: Any warrior goddess. Anytime you think warrior goddess or boundary-setting goddess, that's who it's going to be. It's going to be Tiamat. It's going to be Oshun. Like you said, Morrigan, Danu. It's going to be Brigid and Ceridwen. Any goddess that has ever set a boundary in her life, that's a fourth face goddess. That's a warrior goddess. For the most part, there aren't going to be any goddesses that come right out and say, "This is a fourth face goddess." What you're looking for is goddesses that are represented by the dark moon, goddesses that represent transformation, rebirth, deep inner change. You're looking for goddesses that have immense power for creation and destruction, goddesses, like you said, like Kali, the Morrigan, goddesses like the Greek goddess Nyx, who's the goddess of night. You know, you've got Nephthys, who is an Egyptian goddess, and she embodies the aspects of the night, darkness, mourning, and unseen boundaries, so she fits. There's a Hindu goddess, Dhumavati. She represents the dark moon and widowhood. So, these goddesses who have been through shit and can now walk beside you as a mentor to help you get through the shit. And even though the fourth face, the time of life they say is like roughly 45 to 70-ish, perimenopause can be considered that time of life. You know, and autumn can be considered the season. Some people say that the start of perimenopause signals the beginning of that fourth face aspect, that warrior face aspect. But, since we're decoupling all of this from reproduction anyways, we go more by vibes, more by if you are embodying qualities of that aspect. But like you said, that can be anytime, so it doesn't have to be a goddess that is older. It can be a younger goddess. Freya and Ostara. Again, they might be harder to see, those younger goddesses, but if you've ever seen a young person stand up, set boundaries, know who the fuck they are, and project that, they're channeling that warrior, sovereign energy. That's powerful at any age. You can you can get that "I give no fucks, and I stand in my truth" energy at any time.

Chelle: Hey, for the last 30 years, people have tried to envision Hecate as some big-busted, skinny, man-candy type of goddess. So, hey, if they can visualize her then, roll with it.

Laylla: You can see her in all sorts of places, right? Again, it's a creative time. You're not necessarily creating new things, but you're creating things for yourself. You're creating things for your life and for your sometimes for your community. I find that a lot of people that are doing community work, that are doing outreach, I guess, like you were saying earlier, as a teacher, but in a slightly different way. You know, you're not raising someone up and teaching them, but more like giving of yourself, teaching by doing, uh leading other people through experience. Mentorship, I guess.

Chelle: Well, and to kind of go along with the dark face of the moon thing, I always I also look at it as kind of what's hidden, that hidden knowledge, that hidden realm, that hidden energy that you might not be able to get all of that, quote, unquote, info from the maiden, mother, and crone. You got to spend time with the warrior goddess to get that info kind of thing. You know what I'm saying?

Laylla: Mhm. Oh, yeah.

Chelle: But I see it kind of in between that death and rebirth phase. You know, you're on the precipice of death and rebirth in that warrior phase because, you know, when you're a warrior, you're going all out, you know, consequences be as they may, so you're kind of you're riding that edge of death and rebirth in that warrior phase, I think.

Laylla: It's to me a very powerful, liminal space to be in because you have all this knowledge, you have all this lived experience, but you also at the same time have all this energy and personal power, and putting those two together can be very, very potent if it's directed in a positive way. But if you had trouble maybe say in your maiden phase or your mother phase, or if you have issues maybe with those energies, sometimes you can turn that dark, hidden energy against yourself. That's why shadow work can be so important because sometimes we turn these sovereign energies against ourselves, and we start using it in dark ways to make our own lives miserable because we haven't dealt with the things in our own life.

Chelle: I found a quote by our friend Gail, and I wanted to just put it out there. Gail says, this is one of her quotes out of her book, The Fourth Face of Goddesses, "What is the fourth face of the goddesses? She is the dark moon, the opposite of the full moon. She is the hidden face. She shows us the darkest pieces of ourselves. In her peaceful night, we can pull these out unafraid. May she bless and keep us all." If if that isn't the epitome of the fourth face of the goddess, I don't know what is.

Laylla: Yeah, that's that's beautiful. And it can be scary in the dark. Sometimes walking into that dark can be scary. Hecate can be scary at the crossroads. If you're walking up to the crossroads on a moonless night and Hecate's there, that's scary. You have to face that dark part of yourself. But when you do, and she embraces you, then you become that. You become the scary thing in the dark, right?

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: Now that's you.

Chelle: Right, right, right.

Laylla: And I think both of those aspects are the sovereign, the sovereign deity, that fourth face that's hidden. I think they're that's both parts. It's Absolutely.

Chelle: Every face of the goddess can fit into that warrior face as well.

Laylla: Oh, hell yeah. You know, you're you're going to have the maiden call on that. You know, and that's why I think she's behind the three aspects because she is the backbone of all three aspects. You see the symbol of the triple goddess, the two crescents and the full moon. The dark moon is behind all of those. The dark moon supports all three. She runs through and holds up all three. No matter where you are, she's right there and got your back. And that's what she does.

Chelle: That foundation.

Laylla: That's who she is.

Chelle: Foundation, yeah.

Laylla: And she doesn't need to take the credit. She's not flashy like the full moon. She's hidden, she's there, she knows. And it's almost like a secret, right? When you first start out, you're like, "Ooh, the full moon, it's so powerful." And it is. That's the full power. But the new moon, the dark moon, has just as much power, but in a different way. That's when you can start things. That's when you can set that intention and put things into motion in the dark and in the new moon so that it'll grow and get bigger and bigger and bigger. So, first learn about the full moon, and then you're like, "Ooh, but there's power in the dark, too."

Chelle: And I think that, again, you know, when we talked about the moon phases way back when, this can apply to this, too. People are afraid of what they can't see. But like you said, you become the scary one in the dark once you have embraced it. And I think that there's a lot of focus on shadow work. I feel like shadow work is like the the go-to right now. If you're into shadow work, man, this is your phase.

Laylla: Right?

Chelle: This is where you can deep dive into this stuff. And I've always looked at Hecate uh in this aspect as a she'll guide you. She may hold your hand, but she's still dragging you through the fire.

Laylla: I'm so glad you said that because I was thinking the same fucking thing. Because when you work with the crone, I feel like if you work with your grandmother, she's going to give you great advice, she's going to give you cookies, she's going to walk you through the dark. If you work with the sovereign deity, the queen, the warrior goddess, she's going to say, "You've been lying to yourself, you are not living up to your potential, and we are getting to the other side, one way or another. Let's freaking go."

Chelle: Not like Grandma.

Laylla: No. No. No. But once you do, then you can become that person who becomes the mentor, the caretaker, the fierce protector.

Chelle: The guide.

Laylla: The guide, the guardian. And this is why activists, people who are creators, who are searching, who are seeking, who are making, creating for all these people, sometimes you need to reach into that sovereign energy and really embody that because you you need that power, that energy. And it can be difficult. Absolutely. It can wear you out. I mean, that it's it's one aspect that has all three inside it. It's it's a lot. It can be a lot.

Chelle: It's like multitasking. The fourth face of the goddess is like multitasking.

Laylla: It's multitasking, absolutely. And it and it's doing it all well, but it's also knowing when to rest. It's knowing when that multitasking isn't working for you and saying, "Hey, I'm dropping a couple of these things and taking some time for me," because knowing your boundaries is part of that.

Chelle: I feel like when you're working with that fourth aspect, it's easier to make clear-cut decisions because that energy is just less willy-nilly. It's very cut and dry. It's very black and white. You need to do this, period. There's there's no conversation, there's no argument. So, I feel that it's it's an efficient phase to work with because it cuts through all the bullshit because it doesn't have time for the bullshit. It's not going to coddle you. It's not going to worry about your feelings. It's just going to drag you through.

Laylla: Yeah. And and I think the energy and the power of this can be a little overwhelming, so I think people kind of dip in and out of it as needed. You get better and better at working with it as you do it more and more. Right. Again, no matter what your age, no matter what your gender, we're all here and we can be in that sovereign phase when we need it, when we want to call on it.

Chelle: Well, you know, just as we we look at things and have to adjust them for, you know, "Hey, this was a primitive concept that we are now trying to enact in the 2020s here," the same thing with the gender identification of all of these phases. Yeah, okay, so they were maybe gender assigned hundreds of years ago, but right now, if you are born a female, feeling that sage energy, rock on with your bad self. Or if you were born a male, feeling this warrior goddess energy, roll with it.

Laylla: Yeah, the more we work with these energies and the more we understand them, the more we realize that these ideas and energies aren't confined to one type of person. They're for everyone. We all experience these different stages, these energies, these ideas. Limiting them based on where you're at in your reproductive cycle is limiting.

Chelle: Is irrelevant.

Laylla: Yeah, it's just one small aspect of all of it. There's so much more to it, and it and it applies in so many different ways. So, figuring out what the different aspects of deity mean to you, how do they apply to your life specifically, is part, I think, of witchcraft, is part of our path. That's really what we're trying to do. We're trying to figure out how it works in our lives. Right. What do these aspects mean to you? You know, like you and I have come up with the idea of seeker, maker, sovereign, sage. What does it mean to you? You know, what what are these aspects? Are they all one? Do you have different names for different Right, right, right. But it it's one of those things, I think, that really matters to you. How do you feel about it? Journal that shit. Figure it out for yourself. Where does it fit?

Chelle: I really thought we were going to get through an episode without you saying "journal it." It was so wrong.

Laylla: Hey, tarot and journaling, man, we got to get both in every episode, I think. So, I have a spell, just a quick little meditation spell.

Chelle: Okay, lay it on us.

Laylla: All right. Now, for this one, you just need one candle, but for this one in particular, I'm going to say a battery-operated candle or a small light is perfectly acceptable. If you do use a candle, it should be one that's a safety candle that's like in a glass, like all the way down in a glass or something, because you're going to have it behind you for most of this meditation. So, what you're going to do is get your candle and sit comfortably, put your feet on the floor, and you want to be in a dark room. Dim the lights. I mean, you can have enough light to see. It doesn't have to be pitch black. Put the candle behind you. You want to be able to see a little bit of the light, but you don't want to be able to see the candle at all because the fourth face is not in the light. She's at the back, with the full moon behind you, right? That's the idea.

Chelle: The warrior goddess is back-lit. That's right. There you go. Very flattering.

Laylla: Go ahead and light that candle, close your eyes, take a few deep breaths, let your shoulders drop. You don't have to carry the weight of the world anymore. Unclench your jaw, feel your face relax. Let everything kind of melt away for a moment, all the way down your feet into the earth. And imagine a night sky above you. It's dark and velvety black. Stars are sprinkled around it. No moon, just deep, dark sky, comforting, sparkling, just space. Now, in your mind's eye, imagine that candle that's lit behind you, and imagine that that flame, that little flame, is glowing at your heart, in the center of your chest. Just a small, controlled fire, intentional, ancient, your fire. With every inhalation, that fire grows bigger and steadier. And with every exhale, you are letting go of what it's burning away, whatever that fire is removing from you, just exhale it out. Inhale, let that clean fire get bigger. Exhale, everything you need to let go burns away. Once you've got that fire nice and steady, say out loud or in your mind, "I claim my sovereignty. I release the labor of becoming. I stand in the power I have earned. I answer to myself, my soul, and my higher power." Pause, let it be, let that energy go through you and around you. And then again picture that flame at your center, and allow it to change. Let it grow and become a symbol. Every time you inhale, it increases the energy of that symbol. Maybe it's a crown, maybe it's a blade or a staff, a ring, maybe it's an animal or an image. This is your marker of sovereignty. This is your image of flame that carry with you. Whenever you need that sovereign energy, call up that flaming image, and that will help you draw in that sovereign power, that warrior goddess power. So, whenever you need that extra backbone, that extra strength, call up that fiery symbol, and that will bring that power, that fire, to whatever you need it for. So, keep that image pictured in your mind's eye, breathe with it for a few minutes, then just put your hand on your heart, hold that energy in, breathe it in one more time. Take your time. Sovereigns don't rush. Just breathe with it. And when you're ready, put it away, allow that to sink into your body, breathe in with it, and then open your eyes and come back and put out the candle. And there you go. You've got your magical symbol, you've got your flaming energy to call that fire, that sovereign deity energy, into yourself whenever you need it.

Chelle: You're like the meditation guru. I love you.

Laylla: We cover a lot of aspects.

Chelle: We do.

Laylla: So, what would be some ways that you would suggest to listeners to honor the fourth face of the goddess? Is there Is there something we can do on the on the dark moon, the new moon, you know, some offering we can give uh during her phase? Talk to us.

Laylla: Well, I think this episode is coming out right around the dark moon, so I think if you do that meditation right on the dark moon, that's a good idea. I think that setting out an offering to her, doing a meditation, going out and looking at the night sky when it's dark and there's no moon there, setting your altar with dark stones, with candles, with fire around the dark moon.

Chelle: And and one thing, um as you know, I am I I love knickknacks. I have myself a couple of different Hecate statues, and there is one particular one that I really love that I put a little nugget of weed on um as my little offering. So, that is a good time to kind of change that out, kind of refresh my offering because, you know, I'll set it there, I'll leave it there for the month. So, the dark moon and kind of honoring that phase and and that stage is when I kind of re- re-up my offering, so to say.

Laylla: I'm less of a statue person, and on my altar, as our listeners know, you and I are swords or fire people, so I have my athame and I have a sword. You and I both have the same sword, actually.

Chelle: We do have the same sword.

Laylla: I have that along with um a ring and a small crown. It's like bigger than ring size, it's just like a little crown. But I have those together because for me, the fourth face, this sovereign aspect, is very much fire aspected, the autumn, all the colors, gold, orange, reds, I that's what I see when I picture, even though it's dark, it's like a a dark fire, I guess. So, I have the fire symbols and the sovereignty symbol, and I like those. And I also like any dark stone. It doesn't even have to be like a special crystal, just any dark stone that you find feels to me like an easy way to connect. So, these are symbols that I have on my altar.

Chelle: Get yourself a nice onyx or a nice jade, yeah.

Laylla: Yeah, or even just some cool black stone that you picked up in the creek because Especially if you find it at night. You ever see those black stones that have almost like white specks in them, like I think it's like a granite or something? I have one of those. It looks like a starry sky to me, and so I like to use that sometimes if I'm doing a meditation to that fourth face of the goddess, that night sky, the moonless sky. I like how you give offerings to it. I like because I think that is important to have an energy exchange of some type. And I like to give offerings of words and of energy, and you like to give physical offerings, and I think it's very important to do that, to kind of help make a connection.

Chelle: I'm not going to lie, honey and weed, those are my go-to offerings.

Laylla: Yeah, those are good ones. Okay, side comment, honey and weed as offerings. Now, people ask a lot of times, people love to give food offerings, physical offerings, and what do you do with them? Like you you put it on your altar, you say, "I offer this to the sovereign goddess. I offer this to Hecate. Here's a nugget of weed and a couple drops of honey." Like how long do you leave it on an altar, and what do you do with it when you're done?

Chelle: Okay, so, to answer the burning question, do I smoke the dusty weed? No, I don't. So, so, like I said, you know, I'll um I'll put a little bit out, a very little bit, trust me, waste not, want not. And then, when I refresh it on the next dark moon, I then take that because you got to remember, especially now this time of year, the heat's been on, everything is dry as crazy. This is like the most crumbly weed at this point after about a month out in the open. So, I will just take it outside and just kind of like mash it all up into dust and and off into the wind to the land spirits kind of thing. Honey, kind of the same thing. I'll just go out and dump it out in the yard, kind of offer it to the land spirits. But, however, you know, people dispose of things of that nature in different ways, whatever works for you. I just happen to put them outside and offer them to the land spirits because those two particular things are safe and okay and they're not causing pollution or anything of that nature.

Laylla: What I will do, if I'm offering something physical, what I typically do instead is, at my altar, I have one particular ancestor spirit that I work with where I will smoke a bowl with him on a regular basis. I don't put the weed on the altar. What I do is I will pack my own bowl or roll a joint, and I will offer to him the smoke. So, I will smoke it and offer the smoke to him as my offering. I have an ancestor who loved tea, and she really loved sweet stuff. So, I will offer her the sweetness of the honey as I put it in my tea. So, not the honey itself, but the sweetness of the honey. And as I drink the tea and taste that sweetness, I will think of her and offer her that sweetness. If I do put food out, like say for the silent supper or something like that, if I do put a food offering out on a plate, I will usually offer the heat or the flavor of that, leave the plate there, and then I will eat it or my family will eat it before it goes, you know, that same day, like Right, right, right, right. And again, offer them the heat and the aroma and the taste. So, more of the energy, offer the energy because, in my belief, they're an energetic being. They don't really want the food that's on. They want the idea of it. You know, you giving them that offering is the important part. What happens to it afterwards, I think, is less important, but it would feel bad to me to throw it away. That's why I love that you offer it to the earth or offer it to the wind because that feels better to me, like a better energetic exchange. I would feel guilty throwing away or letting something get moldy that I had put on an altar.

Chelle: That's why I don't like to use honey a lot in the summertime because, you know, who wants an ant problem? And honestly, one time I did try that, and I came into my room one day and the cat was licking it, and I'm like, "This is not what I meant."

Laylla: You know how many times I have put water on an altar and discovered my cat enjoying that in my ancestors' place? And I figure that that is energetically going up to them. It is what it is. Maybe that's how it was meant to be.

Chelle: But like in the summertime, if I do do honey, I will do it during a ritual or a meditation, and then I will dispose of it right after. But as far as leaving it out for the month, in the in the summertime, I only do the little nugget of weed. And the reason I do that instead of the smoke, I always felt like it had to be an offering had to be something you were giving, something of value to you. So, I always looked at it as if I gave a little nugget, that was something that that had value to me that I was offering to them, you know what I'm saying?

Laylla: Yeah, I do, like a sacrifice. You're sacrificing something.

Chelle: Yeah, yeah.

Laylla: Yeah, yeah. Yeah, I can see that. And that reminds me, there have been times where we have sacrificed things, like we've sacrificed smoking. Sacrificed smoking cannabis for a whole month, of two months, as an offering to deity for some things that we wanted to do in the past, some workings that we were doing for our community. And I think sacrifices like that can also be important. So, I totally see what you're saying, you know, "I am sacrificing this food to you." And so, in that case, that's how I look at that. And I would say of in that case, if you're like, "I am offering this food as a sacrifice," that means that when that food, when you're done, whether that's that day or a week later or whatever, you can throw that away. It's okay because you have already sacrificed it, and throwing it away to have it be taken care of is less of a That's no longer like a like an insult of throwing away their offering. You've sacrificed it, and so this is the way you get rid of that sacrifice. So, I can see doing that. That makes sense to me energetically.

Chelle: Well, I will still put it outside, yeah.

Laylla: No, and I like that, too, you know, putting it outside is offering it back to the earth, and sometimes you can't, you know, maybe you can't offer it outside.

Chelle: It depends on what your your offering is, yeah.

Laylla: Yep, and so I think that offering it as a sacrifice is a good way to get around the "I don't want to throw away a gift I gave you." Right. By labeling it a sacrifice instead of a gift or an offering, that means that the energetic act of you giving up that item, that valuable item, you giving it up, that's the sacrifice, not the physical item as a gift offering. That's where the distinction is, in my mind, between a sacrifice, something that you are literally giving up, the the act of getting rid of it, the act of giving it up, is the offering, whereas a gift of food, the food is the offering. Semantics, splitting hairs, but it it makes a difference.

Chelle: Right, right, right.

Laylla: So, I like that. But yeah, so for me personally, again, I think that they're energetic beings, so I like to offer them energetic things.

Chelle: I gotcha.

Laylla: So, that is definitely a way to honor any aspect of deity is to give them an offering, give them a sacrifice, because the idea is, much like decluttering, you know, you're making way, you're making space in your life for something new. This is an energy exchange. If you're offering something to deity, you're giving them something, maybe you're thanking them, or maybe you're just offering to honor them. There's a lot of different reasons why, but that opens up space in your life, in your heart, in your being, to receive that energy back.

Chelle: Isn't that really what we're here for?

Laylla: I think so. I hope so. So, claiming sovereign energy in your life means taking control, taking charge, taking responsibility.

Chelle: Sometimes it means taking the hard road.

Laylla: It does, yep. And it and it means being that mentor, walking with someone but not carrying them.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: It's taking care of of yourself and taking care of others, but not to the point of burnout. It's so much more than that.

Chelle: I look at it as taking care of others that you have to include yourself as one of those others.

Laylla: Big time. She is very much about taking care of self. She is she is literally militant about that, that boundaries and taking care of self are very important, and honoring self. And so, sometimes that means jumping into things and trying new things and not being afraid to fail. She has a lot of knowledge, but she's also not afraid to try new things and to try things that might not work because that's that's part of growth and learning, and I don't think she's afraid of any of that.

Chelle: Sometimes I look at the the fourth face of the goddess as the strength card in the tarot deck, and here's why. Because in the strength card, you have this depiction of this what appears to be this fragile, youthful, beautiful goddess then either some cards depict either her prying open the lion's mouth or having her hand in the mouth while petting it. And I I look at that that face of the goddess as the strength card because it's the almost like she's embodying everything. She's young, she's beautiful, she's smart, she's, you know, learned, but she's not afraid. She's in control. She's got confidence. She knows what she's doing. So, I I look at the strength card sometimes in relation to this face of the goddess because it's the "I know where I am, I know what I am doing, and I know how this is going to end because I am in control of this situation. I have set the stage and set the boundaries, everything's in line properly."

Laylla: I love that. Yes, very much. And I I would say I also see her a lot as the justice card.

Chelle: Oh, yeah, I can see that. Yeah, yeah, yeah.

Laylla: She's there, she knows, she sees both sides, she sees where things are going. She has power and integrity. She's reminding us that she's got that sovereignty, but she also has responsibility.

Chelle: But with a quiet strength.

Laylla: Absolutely. She's got a sword, man. She's holding the sword and the scale. She's she's taking care of all of these things, but she's finding that balance. And and I think that's very, very important is she is someone who, above all, I think, reveres balance. I mean, she's literally behind the triple goddess, holding it all together, holding that balance, being the backbone, and I I think that justice and strength, I love strength because there's the strength to be that backbone. I I really like I like those two cards for that. I like that.

Chelle: Wow, we just came up with this fourth face of the goddess. You got strength and you got justice. Boom, there it is.

Laylla: There you go. What better So, if you need a little bit of that in your life, meditate on those two cards and uh bring that sovereign energy, that strength, into your life. Find that symbol that's yours and hold on to it. Sometimes we need that. Sometimes we need that touchstone when we need a little extra strength in our life, and she can really be that.

Chelle: No, I think that I love this whole thing that we've done. I think we've done a great job with the maiden, we did a great job with the mother, a great job with the crone.

Laylla: Warrior, sage.

Chelle: Yeah, we we did we did we've done phenomenal. And to wrap it up with this warrior face goddess, I think, was You know, at first, I remember telling you I wanted to do it in order, and I'm so glad that we ended up doing it this way because this was a great way to wrap up this series.

Laylla: She's powerful, and she's needed right now. And I think that that we all need a lot of strength. Coming up on Imbolc, that fire festival, finding that fire in the belly. Technically, if you're talking about it, autumn is her season. Fall is is the warrior goddess's season. But like we were talking about at the beginning of the episode, she's really a liminal space goddess. Imbolc is that space between the season of winter and the season of spring, so right between the crone and the maiden goddess. It's that moment, that liminal space, and that's very much where the sovereign goddess lives as well, right here in that space at Imbolc. I really think that fire in the belly fits with the sovereign goddess, the warrior goddess, as well.

Chelle: But, you know, I also think, and and you kind of touched on it, but I kind of think that everything works out cosmically. It's a good time for we as a people to embody this phase. Maybe it is a good time for folks to sit down, pull out your tarot deck, get out that strength card, get out that justice card, meditate on them. I am going to use a word that Laylla says that's going to hurt me to say. Journal it. What are you getting out of the strength card and the justice card that you can put into action in your life right now? What is the fourth face of the goddess telling you to act on? What is she telling you to put boundaries and set boundaries for? What is the goddess telling you that your sovereignty is? Meditate on that, folks.

Laylla: Wow, journaling and meditation in the same comment? So, we're going to end the episode right here because this will never happen again. Thank you all so much for listening to Back on the Broomstick. Please like, subscribe, give us a comment, a review. It helps the show out, and it makes Chelle and I cackle like little witches.

Chelle: Keep it witchy before my head explodes from saying "journal it" too many times.

Laylla: And happy almost Imbolc, everybody.
