Welcome to Back on the Broomstick, a modern witches' spoken word grimoire, where two witchy friends from way back are reconnecting to their pagan roots after a long period of mundanity. Where we're walking the path of the wise and trying out all the latest spells, rituals, and magical theory in today's witchcraft and pagan practices. So grab your wand and your incense, your cauldron and your crystals, and join us as we get back on the broomstick.

Laylla: Hi, and welcome to Back on the Broomstick. I'm Laylla, and on this episode, we are joined by one of my favorite podcasters, the co-host to the popular podcast, Demystify Magic. She's also the author of a brand new book that comes out in just a few days. The book is Mundane Magic, and her name is Molly Donlan.

Chelle: And I'm Chelle, and now she is also the author of one of my new favorite books because, folks, we're going to dive into this in a second, but this is one you can't put down, and I absolutely love this book, and I'm so excited to talk.

Laylla: Not only is this a special episode because we're both fan-girling over the witch that is about to come on, but this episode also comes out on a very mystical, very spooky day, Friday the 13th.

Chelle: Dun dun dun.

Laylla: Okay, before we get started with our interview, Chelle, why don't you grab a deck from your massive stash and pull a tarot card for us? With your ad-deck-tion, I know you've got something that'll work.

Chelle: That's right, it's an ad-deck-tion. For Friday the 13th, Chelle has said that she has picked out an extra special, extra spooky tarot deck from the large stash of decks. What do you got for us, Chelle? Okay, so this deck actually is relatively new, and this is Christina Ricci's Cat Full of Spiders Tarot Deck.

Laylla: I adore Christina Ricci. Is she the author of this deck?

Chelle: Actually, yeah. So what this is, is like a bigger box set, the one that has like an actual little book.

Laylla: Oh, like the deluxe collector's set.

Chelle: Yeah, yeah. Like this is just a gorgeous deck. But she actually wrote the book. This is totally something she's immersed into. This is not just a fan deck.

Laylla: I have been in love with Christina Ricci since she said, "Are your cookies made with real girl scouts?"

Chelle: Yeah, yeah. But see, what this deck is, she did the foreword, and then there was a creative director, Mark Hampton, custom artwork by Felipe Flores, and the book gives fans of Christina Ricci a retrospective look at her personal and professional journey through tarot. So, yeah. So when you're looking at these cards, you're seeing things like scenes from Casper, scenes from Wednesday. These are fabulous. Edward Scissorhands, like every movie she's ever been in is depicted in these cards. They're fabulous. They're fabulous. Like I said, not a fan-inspired book. This is totally, she's totally immersed into this. And this is, like I said, brand new deck. It is copyright 2024. So it's only been out for maybe a year or so, year and a half. I think you should just get it just for the sake of, let alone if you have an ad-deck-tion.

Laylla: You're killing me. I need to see these cards. What do we got?

Chelle: I'm shuffling them up though right now. Okay, so, wow, today we are working with the Nine of Wands.

Laylla: Oh, I like that card. There's gears. It looks like I see stars there. I like the purples and blues and black of this deck.

Chelle: But the way she's dressed in this picture, for some reason, it reminds me of a Rockette. You know, the bodysuit with the jacket and the heels. And because it is the Nine of Wands, she's kind of holding a wand in her hand with the other eight wands kind of coming down behind her. I get kind of a steampunk vibe from this card, to be honest with you.

Laylla: The gears at the bottom of it give me that same kind of thing. And you know, that kind of goes with the Nine of Wands, like the resilience idea, you know, that perseverance and keep chugging, keep ticking, keep on going.

Chelle: You've got to keep everything in motion to keep everything flowing is kind of what I get. You've got to keep working at the task, keep working at the task.

Laylla: And gears can be an inner strength, too, that I think sometimes wands can depict, like that quiet inner strength.

Chelle: Yeah, and when I'm looking at this picture of her kind of, I don't know if showgirl is the word I want to use, but kind of with that showgirl-esque look, it's kind of the putting in the work, doing what you've got to do to kind of make it to the next step, just like a showgirl would.

Laylla: Right, even though it's hard. Yes.

Chelle: Yeah, you kind of got to force through, muscle through, focus on the task at hand.

Laylla: Almost feel like this card is saying to me that, you know when you're working really hard at a physical task, like I like how you said a dancer, say you're working at dancing and you're trying really hard to perfect a move, it hurts. It's painful. When you're doing that work and putting that in, it can be hard, and you have to find that core of stillness inside, that resilience inside to take a breath and move through that pain, move through that adversity until you can come out the other side. This is a nine card now, you're at the end, you've almost mastered it. And so, I love that there's gears. I like all of that with the card.

Chelle: I really love this deck. I definitely recommend folks take a gander at it because it's really gorgeous.

Laylla: Okay, my one question is, I know sometimes you don't love when they rename cards. Are these all named traditionally with the Smith-Rider-Waite deck?

Chelle: Like as far as the suits?

Laylla: Yeah, do they have any unusual names or is it pretty much traditional?

Chelle: No, it's pretty standard. They've got the Page, the Knight, the King, and the Queen. So this is kind of along that Rider-Waite-Smith vibe.

Laylla: All right.

Chelle: So I think if that card resonates with you this week, just remember, take a deep breath, you're almost there, and just finish the work.

Laylla: There you go. I love that. Well, all right. So, now that we've had our fun with tarot cards, Chelle, I think it's time to invite our guest in so that we can talk about magic and how to bring magic into your everyday life.

Chelle: Oh my god, I'm so excited. We haven't had a guest in so long.

Laylla: It's been a minute. This is a guest that I'm actually a fan of. I listen to her podcast, and I'm pretty excited.

Chelle: So, without further ado, let's introduce Molly Donlan. And Laylla, what's her podcast?

Laylla: Her podcast with her co-host, Madison Lillian, is Demystify Magic.

Chelle: And the book is Mundane Magic: A Lazy Witch's Guide—like totally right up my alley—to Hacking Your Brain, Building a Daily Practice, and Getting Stuff Done. So we would like to bring to the show tonight, Molly Donlan. Molly, welcome. Thank you for being here. We are so excited to have you.

Molly Donlan: Oh my gosh, I'm so excited. I'm like over here fan-girling. Before we started recording, I was like, y'all are our listeners' favorite podcast. Like, we're over here just being like, oh, I'm your, one of your favorite podcasts? No, you're one of mine. I'm so excited to be here. Y'all just have such a fantastic podcast, especially for newer witches or folks who are just like coming back to their practice. And so I think, I think this conversation is going to be a real treat.

Laylla: Thank you so much, and same. Now, we were lucky enough to get an early copy of your book, which comes out February 17th. So that's just a couple days from now when this podcast goes out. Now, could you tell us a little bit about this because our listeners are always asking for, what can I do in my everyday life to make it a little more witchy? And you more than answered it in this book. So can you tell us a little bit about it?

Molly Donlan: Yeah, so Mundane Magic was really born out of my love of being a witch and my struggle with ADHD and keeping my house clean.

Laylla: Hello.

Molly Donlan: And so I have always been the practitioner that, my practice is really embedded into my life. So the first spiritual book I ever read was called Work by Thich Nhat Hanh, which is all about adding moments of mindfulness to every hour of your day, from brushing your teeth to answering the phone to commuting to work, answering emails, etc. And a lot of my teachings are inspired by his work and really infusing your practice into your day-to-day. And so that's always been how I've approached magic. And it didn't occur to me that that wasn't the norm until I started getting messages from our listeners being like, you know, I would love to practice magic, but I can't even wash my dishes. And I'm like, bestie, what if you did both at the same time? Do them together.

Laylla: Do them together.

Molly Donlan: And so really the idea for Mundane Magic came to me quite literally in a dream. I know sometimes people say that and you're like, sure it did. But I remember just like having this dream where I started a video going, "Are you tired of mopping like a muggle?" And just made this video about like mopping my house and making a potion to spread throughout my space. And people loved it. And they were like, well, can you do the dishes next? Can you do dusting next? Can you do grocery shopping? Can you do folding laundry? And I was like, yeah, because I'm avoiding all those things, too. And so it really just became this like informal spell book on the internet of like all of the things on my to-do list that my ADHD doesn't want to do. And when I infused it with something magical, now all of a sudden I'm excited to do it. And the book was born from there. And, you know, obviously, in the, maybe not obviously if you don't know me, but I'm kind of a science nerd and was a skeptic of magic for most of my life. And so a lot of my work is based in the science behind how magic works. And it was this perfect tie-in between, you know, the science behind how habit forming works and the science behind nervous system regulation and how consistency is more powerful than duration. And really, the book was born from that. So I like to say it's your, your one-stop guide for whether it's cleaning your house, building your magical practice, or understanding what witchy ingredients you already have in your home so you don't have to go out and buy a million crystals or buy a, you know, herb kit because you already have everything you need in your spice drawer.

Chelle: Not only do you have everything around that you can use for the spells in here, but you cover everything. You have a spell for cleaning your grill. Like your grill. So, you know, you might find on the web or in books how to, how to clean your bedroom and make it a magical act. But you really cover everything.

Molly Donlan: Oh.

Chelle: And for the ADHD mind, you know, there isn't a task that I found in my daily life that wasn't covered in your book.

Molly Donlan: Mhm.

Chelle: So this is absolutely the most amazing book I've read in a long time because it really does cover how you can really work magic into every nook and cranny in your life. Not just making the bed and mopping the floor, but every single task, brushing your teeth or, or sweeping up dust or dusting the curtains, you know, every single task in your life, you've made it accessible to be magical.

Molly Donlan: Mhm. Yeah, and that really came out of, I have to give credit to my community, especially my community on Instagram, because when I was writing this manuscript, it's, the book is centralized around different rooms in the home. So I was really open with my community through this whole process. And every week I'd be like, okay, I am doing the chapter on the kitchen. Tell me in the comments every single chore or task you're avoiding. And that became my outline of the book. I took literally every single suggestion. I don't think there's a single suggestion I left off. Like my editor was like, do we really need this one? I'm like, yes, one person asked for it. Yes. My favorite, my favorite, which really highlights the scope of this, is there's a cleaning the fish tank one. And when I was writing that one, I went deep into like, what if you turned your fish tank into an altar? And then I was like looking up the symbology behind all the different like items you could put in your fish tank and the color magic around the pebbles and like using moon water and like, that's the level of it. And I think that's the fun of it is it's literally so comprehensive that if you find a chore that is not in the book that you have been avoiding, DM me. I will write you a spell.

Laylla: That's what I loved about this is your magic is on point. None of these are stupid. None of these are, the bar is real low. None of the spells in this book are, oh, you want to incorporate magic into your life, stir your intentions into your coffee, which is great. That's a great small practice to build on. But there's more to it than that. We want more than that. People are always looking for, what can I add to my everyday, like you said, your community was asking that of you, you know, what can I do? But above and beyond having actually good spell work in here, what I really enjoyed is you bring in all of the senses, not only to your meditations, but also to your spell work. And now, I am also someone who loves the science and brains and brain hacking. And now, Chelle's the Reiki master. I work more in hypnotherapy, so I know you have a little in common there. But in those modalities, when you're working with people and when you're working with someone in a, to get them fully into a meditation or a hypnotic state, or if someone's in a, a heightened stress state, bringing your attention to all of your senses, what you see, what you smell, what you taste, what you hear, that gets your brain, that gets all of your brain involved and helps you fully get into the magic, into your magical brain. Can you tell us a little bit about that?

Molly Donlan: Yeah, I mean, working with the senses really came out of my background in working with survivors of trauma. So I worked with survivors of sexual violence for nine years, and that was the go-to technique that we taught advocates was if you have someone who is starting to dissociate on a support line call or in a hospital accompaniment, you know, bring them into their senses. And, you know, there's a whole host of research behind that. But to sum it up, it essentially forces us back into the present, right? Because your sense of touch only exists in the here and now. It doesn't exist in the future. I can't future touch something, right? Like and experience it. Same with your sense of smell, your sense of taste, right? And so by using all of the senses in our spell work, we're dropping into the present moment. And especially if you have a neurodivergent brain that struggles with just focusing on something, focusing on your breath and breathing, breathing in, feeling it, whatever, when we bring those other senses in, the brain starts to latch on more easily to the present moment.

Laylla: I could tell that there was the trauma-informed background there because one of the things that you did that I loved in your meditations was you didn't just say close your eyes, because not everyone can do that. Not everyone feels safe and comfortable to close their eyes. So you said or gaze softly at something. And I was cheering when I read that. I was like, yes, this is perfect. Not everything works for everyone. Not everyone can meditate seated. Some people need to move. Some people need to pay attention to other things. So this book just was so rich with details and with different ways of doing things, I think. So it was very good in that for me.

Chelle: I think one thing that really was poignant to me right from the get-go out of this book, and what really caught my attention and kind of sucked me in to want more, was you said something to the effect of, "Two minutes of magic a day is more effective than," I think, "an hour of magic a month." I can't remember exactly how you phrased it. But I was just like, oh, she's on to something there. Sometimes quality is better than quantity. And you really kind of, just the way you phrased it, I was like, oh shit, she's right. So kind of explain your theory because for folks that'll be like, you know, hey, two minutes a day, 30 days, 60 minutes, what's the difference? Kind of explain that theory because that really caught my attention.

Molly Donlan: Oh, I would love nothing more. So there's two ways we can look, there's lots of ways we can look at this, right? When it comes to building habits, the lower the bar, the easier it is to overcome, and momentum is what builds habits, especially again, if you have a neurodivergent brain. The getting started is the hardest part. So if we lower that bar all the way to the floor where you can trip over it on the days you have zero time and you feel like shit, which by the way, are the days you need your magical practice the most. Most, yep. Oh yeah. Then perhaps we maybe have an opportunity to do it. And it maybe doesn't feel like one more thing on our to-do list that we don't get done that then we shame ourselves for. So there's that aspect. But really, it's rooted in the nervous system. My core belief is that your spiritual practice is not something you follow because you want to stress yourself out. Anyone disagrees with me, let me know. The majority of us follow a spiritual path and approach magic because we want to make our lives better in some way. We want to make ourselves better in some way. Maybe we want to manage the stress in our lives easier. Maybe we want to reduce some of the worry or some of the fears, some of the fear, some of the pain that we're experiencing, right? Maybe we want to create a different life for ourselves, or maybe we just want to feel really present and secure with who we are. And all of those things tie back to our nervous system, right? You have two sides to your nervous system. You have your fight, flight, freeze response in the sympathetic nervous system. That's the side of you that literally thinks you're being chased by a tiger when your Wi-Fi buffers for a little bit too long before an important meeting, right? Doesn't know the difference. The wiring's the same. And then your relaxation response, the parasympathetic nervous system, which is all about homeostasis and finding equilibrium and allowing your body to heal. And when it comes to regulating the nervous system, which is one of the benefits of getting present and being intentional and being curious in our magical practice, is consistency is more powerful than duration. So the analogy I like to give is drinking water, right? What do you think would be more effective for the health of your body and mind, drinking a gallon of water once a week or sipping on a glass of water throughout each day? Right? Most of us would say, yeah, okay, I know I need to drink more water, right? There's a spell for that in the book, I promise.

Laylla: Call me, Molly, I hear you.

Molly Donlan: Or, you know, like, like anything, moving your body, what would be more effective for your health, taking a parking spot that's a little further away from your office or running a half marathon tomorrow with no training, right?

Chelle: Right.

Molly Donlan: And so it's the same thing with our magical practice. Are there times where the big elaborate rituals make sense and they feel exciting? Sure, go ahead, do that. But on your day-to-day, we need something that can keep up with the life that we have. We need something that doesn't feel like one more thing on our to-do list that we can avoid until tomorrow. And that's really where this two minutes comes in. You have two minutes. I remember when I was an advocate, I was a consent educator for part of my job, so I was driving all over Maine at weird hours in the morning, like 3:00 AM, like three hours away to get there at 6:00 AM. It was bonkers. I had this goal of meditating every morning. And some mornings I woke up at 3:00 AM and I was like, I don't have 10 minutes. But I have two. And so I would sit and I would take those two minutes, and it would just alter the entire commute and then alter the entire day. And then I was able to deal with the, you know, screaming 11-year-olds after recess, right? And so, yeah, I just find that when we, when we kind of set that as the baseline and we set that as the standard, it becomes doable rather than something to dread.

Chelle: Two minutes isn't scary. Two minutes is not scary.

Molly Donlan: Yeah, and then in doing so, you actually build resilience in your nervous system. You rewire the neural pathways in your brain to feel more present, and then every little thing doesn't feel like a tiger to your brain anymore. It's like, that is the true magic, in my opinion.

Chelle: I love that. I love that so much.

Laylla: And stacking habits like that, doing just something for two minutes makes it much more accessible, makes, and for me, if something starts to look like a mountain, like you said, even little things you can trip over, if it starts to look like a mountain, I won't do it.

Molly Donlan: Yep.

Laylla: And so your two-minute idea fits in with something Chelle and I like to talk about, which is to just do the thing. Don't worry about failing it. Go ahead and fail it, actually. Plan on failing it. Plan on doing it badly, but do the thing. Try it first. So try it for two minutes and don't worry if you don't do it right, I guess, is what I'm, that's the marriage between our podcasts is what I'm hearing.

Molly Donlan: Yeah, you can't do it wrong. Like, you can't, none of the spells in this book are going to like blow up in your face, like if you don't fold your laundry correctly. Oh no.

Laylla: No. The spell police will not come to your door. It's okay.

Molly Donlan: Yeah, nobody is going to come by and like snap your wand in half, you know? Like, nothing bad is going to happen. And so like, it gives you permission to just try it.

Laylla: Chelle.

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: You are famous for the beginning of the month cinnamon spell. You throw the cinnamon stick out the door. So has anyone come knocking on your house and put you in witch jail yet?

Chelle: You know, they haven't, but I, I really think that some of the creatures out in my yard are really loving those cinnamon sticks. Neighbors maybe not so much, but.

Laylla: So if they haven't come for Chelle yet, they're not going to be coming for you if you do the spell wrong. So do it for two minutes. It's not going to hurt. It's going to be easy. Now, the other question I had for you is, at the beginning of your podcast and, you know, even in your, in your biography and everything, you talk about you're a former skeptic turned energy worker. Can you tell us a little bit about that transformation?

Molly Donlan: Oh my gosh, yeah. I, like if you had told 22-year-old me that I'd write a book about magic, I would have thought like I was doing some sort of like hocus pocus shit, like.

Laylla: Well, you kind of are.

Molly Donlan: I mean, yeah, I like, I didn't know witches were real. Like, and if you'd told me they were, I'd be like, mhm, yeah, okay. Yeah, sure, sure they are. And Hogwarts?

Laylla: Still waiting on my letter.

Molly Donlan: She sucks, but that's okay, sorry. 100%, yeah, 100%. But yeah, it was never a part of my upbringing. I was very like open to it. I've always been someone who's like, believe whatever you want, you know? And I wasn't raised in any particular religion, so I had nothing against these practices. I just thought, you know, what a waste of time. And then through my career as an advocate, I ended up just developing chronic pain, chronic hip pain that was completely unexplainable to every pain specialist and doctor I could find. They were just like, I don't know, you're 23, good luck. And I was like, great, love that for me. And so that's really when I started leaning into mindfulness and, and yoga and meditation and breathwork and things like that, which sort of like opened the door a little bit, but didn't fully convince me. I was like, yeah, it works because I'm moving my body and the body has, you know, whatever. But I knew a lot about the nervous system through my work of, you know, working with trauma. And so I had a yoga teacher basically tell me that she had a similar job to me and she had similar pain to me from her work because she was storing all this, this trauma in her body from other people, and she found relief through Reiki. And I was like, sure you did. But I was on a yoga retreat, so I thought, why not? I'll get a session. And I just remember being on the table, and with my eyes closed, seeing this like wispy white light in the shape of my hip rotate out of my body and like snap back into place. Like I always think of it like, you know in cartoons when the, the cartoon character dies and their ghost comes up for one more gag?

Laylla: Yeah.

Molly Donlan: My hip did that. And I was like, what is this? And the next morning, I wasn't in pain. And a week later, I went to my chiropractor and he was like, what did you do? Your hips are in alignment for the first time ever. And so I was like, okay. So I went through Reiki training and, you know, God bless her, this woman was so up in the clouds, so woo. I kept asking, I was like an annoying kid on a car ride. I was like, but how does it work? But like, what is it doing? And she was just, you know, giving me the woo explanation. And so halfway through, I just wrote it off. I was like, well, like I thought, coincidence, waste of money. But I felt different after, and I felt my pain start to lessen. And so that's really when I started diving into the science behind energy work, which is really like what I teach now, and starting to see these similarities between how trauma impacts the mind and body, and then how, you know, these energy healing practices interact with the mind and body, and seeing that through line of the nervous system allowed me to really lean into my practice. And that's when I started to see real relief from my pain and like long-term relief, and changes in my mood and changes in my anxiety and changes in the way that I interact with the world. And eventually, somewhere along the line, I dropped the skeptic thing and I was like, yeah, your girl's a witch and she's writing a book called Mundane Magic. I got a podcast about it, and here we are.

Laylla: That's, that's great. That's great. Now, Chelle.

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: I hear that you have a little game you want to play with us.

Chelle: Yes, I do. But let me explain why I have a game first. Now, Mundane Magic comes out February 17th, and you should definitely go out and get yourself a copy because if you've ever wanted to add more magic into your life in an easy, accessible way, this is it. Plus, it's fun to read.

Molly Donlan: It's really my new favorite book, and I'm not even just saying that. I, it truly is.

Laylla: She texted me, Molly, and said, "I hate this book. I can't put it down." She's like, she's like, "This is awesome." But the fun thing that I'm getting to is that this episode comes out on Friday the 13th.

Chelle: Dun dun dun.

Laylla: As a former skeptic, I thought I would test your knowledge, and Chelle's too, because she had no idea I was going to do this till we got on, on Friday the 13th superstitions. Oh, okay. So this is the, I think it's the, like the second ever Back on the Broomstick game show. Thank you very much.

Molly Donlan: I love game shows. One thing about me, I'm very competitive with myself. Okay, let's do this. Let's do this. Now I'm like, I'm ready.

Laylla: Roll up your sleeves. There are no prizes here. There's just the notoriety.

Molly Donlan: Bragging rights.

Laylla: That's right. Okay, so I have three pairs. I'm going to give you a real superstition and a fake superstition.

Molly Donlan: Okay.

Laylla: I have three sets of these. So you got to tell me, which is the real one and which is the fake. Okay.

Molly Donlan: I love this. I'm ready.

Laylla: All right. Number one, wearing a borrowed ring or necklace on Friday the 13th is said to tangle your fate with the owner's problems, causing you to carry their bad luck until the item is returned and cleansed. Okay? Number two is getting a tattoo on Friday the 13th is lucky because bad luck will come up to you, see the number 13 on your body, and figure you've already had bad luck and leave you alone. Which of those is real and which is fake?

Molly Donlan: I feel like, I, I'm leaning against the Friday the 13th one because logically I was like, well, I know a lot of tattoo shops do like flash sales on Friday the 13th, like $13 tattoos. But I don't, I don't really see them in like, I don't see the witchy tattoo shops leaning into a superstition like that, which I feel like would be a good marketing plan if that were true. So I'm going to go with the ring one.

Chelle: And I'm going to agree because I just, I have never in my life heard anybody say that. So I'm just going to say that I don't, I'm definitely going with the ring one. It just sounds more legit to me.

Laylla: And the answer is, you're both wrong.

Molly Donlan: What?

Laylla: The first one is fake. I made it up. Totally made it up.

Molly Donlan: You're kidding. That's such a good superstition. Let's spread that.

Laylla: It sounds real. I mean, it sounds like, I figured this one would trip you up. But no, actually, Friday the 13th tattooing is actually a relatively new superstition. And Oliver Peck, who is one of the tattoo artists that I believe is a judge on, I don't remember what tattoo show, but he is a famous tattooist, and he says that bad luck will come your way, see the number 13, see that bad luck is already there, and it would pass on by. So Friday the 13th tattooing a 13 on your body is actually good luck.

Molly Donlan: Well, I know what I'm doing Friday.

Chelle: If you can make up a superstition, so can the three of us. So let's do this ring and necklace thing. Let's make it official.

Laylla: I will give you half a point.

Molly Donlan: I feel like what tripped me up is that one was so much more detailed than the Friday the 13th one. Like, it was so much more specific. It was like, you know, the multiple choice questions where it's like you got the vague, the vague, and the ultra-specific, and you're like, hm, gee, I wonder which one it was. Nailed it. Okay.

Laylla: Laylla's, Laylla's tricky.

Chelle: I'm tricky, tricky. Okay. Number two. On Friday the 13th, you should not put your shoes on a table, sleep on a table, or sing at the table because doing any of those will increase your bad luck. Or, if you wash your windows on Friday the 13th, you are said to wipe away the protection from the home, making the household more vulnerable to bad energy.

Chelle: I am going to go with the second one being true because if I would have put my shoes on the table, no matter what day it was, I would have gotten an ass-whooping. So I'm definitely going with number two.

Molly Donlan: Yeah, it was put your shoes on the table, sleep on the table, or what was the third one?

Laylla: Let's see. You should not put your shoes on, sleep on, or sing at the table on Friday the 13th.

Molly Donlan: I'm like, who is sleeping on a table? Who is putting their, like I got caught up in the shoes on the table. I was like, yeah, if that's not a superstition, let's make it one. Yeah. Oh god, this one's so hard because I feel like, I feel like I hear a lot of superstitions, especially when it comes to like cleaning the house, and I've never heard the window one. But, uh, I'm going to go with, I'm going to go with the table one. I'm going to go just to be different.

Laylla: Okay. Okay. And one of you got it right, and the winner is Molly.

Molly Donlan: Oh my god.

Chelle: That window thing sounded so legit.

Laylla: Right? No, no, no. Now, I actually thought that, Chelle, you would get, I was worried that you would get that one right and we would be accused of cheating because we did, a year or so ago, talk about Friday the 13th superstitions, and we mentioned the shoes on the table, and you did say that you would have gotten an ass-whooping if you had ever done that. So I worried you would remember.

Chelle: Yeah, I smoke weed. I didn't.

Molly Donlan: It's, it's the best part about having a podcast. I have no memory of what comes out of my mouth, but like someone somewhere knows every specific detail I've said.

Chelle: Every single thing. Yes, yes.

Laylla: I edit all of our episodes.

Molly Donlan: Oh yeah. Okay, so you're the person.

Laylla: I hear every word like 15 times. So, yeah. I remember.

Chelle: She knows everything. She knows everything.

Laylla: I love it. Okay, yeah, we're a two-woman show here, Molly, so excuse the mess.

Molly Donlan: I love it.

Laylla: All right, the last one. Now we've got one and a half points for Molly and half a point for Chelle. And the half point is because we decided the jewelry thing is, we have now made that a superstition, so that's why you get a half point. So, last one here. We can either tie it up or Molly's going to run away with it. First superstition, getting your haircut or cutting your nails on Friday the 13th will result in cutting of your financial stability or even the death of a family member. Or, dropping a spoon on Friday the 13th is believed to signal bad news coming from someone who lives far away, especially if the spoon lands bowl side down.

Chelle: I feel like my grandmother has said the second one. I'm going with that one for the win.

Molly Donlan: I feel like there is a superstition about cutting your hair on a certain day, but I don't think it's Friday the 13th. So I'm also going to go with the spoon one.

Laylla: And you're both wrong.

Molly Donlan: Oh my god.

Laylla: Yeah, the spoon one, you're good at this. Yeah. Now, there are superstitions about dropping silverware, and I believe dropping a spoon on any day means that you're going to get a, a female visitor.

Chelle: I thought that was the fork, and the knife was a male visitor, and that the spoon was troubles coming.

Laylla: Oh goodness. Well, see, I guess it depends on where you're from in the back country.

Molly Donlan: Wait, wait, wait. In which case, we got this right, Chelle, because if the spoon means troubles coming, then in theory, if you drop it on Friday the 13th, bad news does come. Hey. Right.

Laylla: Hm. Hm.

Molly Donlan: That was a trick question. That was not our fault.

Laylla: I have to give you a half a point. That, that was. I did try to be extra tricky with that one, so maybe I need to give a half a point again. I'm going to lean in with points here.

Chelle: I was going to say, I think I get a half a point for that, and Molly gets a half a point for that, but unfortunately, that still only puts me at one and makes her at two. Dammit.

Laylla: That means, woo, Molly wins. Congratulations. Woo. You win bragging rights.

Molly Donlan: Bragging rights. Yay.

Laylla: And you, you sort of know your Friday the 13th superstitions.

Molly Donlan: Sort of, yeah. Like, I know how to argue when I'm right. That's what we learned from this.

Laylla: You would make a good witchy lawyer. That's what we're saying. That's what we have learned.

Chelle: I thought you were going to come at me with like, don't walk under the ladder, you know, black cat crosses your path. Like, you went, you went in-depth with some of those that were wrong. Good job.

Molly Donlan: Fantastic. Now I know, now I got to research my lore like. Jeez.

Laylla: These are very serious superstitions. We need to be very, very careful with what we do on these days.

Molly Donlan: I know. Well, now I got to book a tattoo appointment apparently. We'll all be on, we'll all be after this episode, we'll be out getting our tattoos, we'll be showing them on the social media, yeah. You see, I'm surprised you don't have a thing about getting a tattoo in here, Molly. You should do that.

Molly Donlan: You know, I know, but that's usually something you put off doing. Like, that's usually something people are excited for, no?

Laylla: Good point, good point. That's not something that my brain has to worry about.

Molly Donlan: I did get a tattoo of one of the illustrations from Mundane Magic. So, that counts, right?

Laylla: I love that.

Molly Donlan: It's the living room chapter illustration. So, it's my favorite.

Laylla: See, heard it here first, people. Now, the other thing I wanted to mention was, so I, I kind of look at your social media, and, you know, I saw not too long ago, there was a, an Instagram post, and some of your first copies had come out. And Madison has a video of her seeing your book for the first time. And I love that video. First of all, because I'm super excited for you. And secondly, because it, it reminds me of me and Chelle. I mean, she's so excited for you. I freaking love that. She's like, you can just see the joy that she has for you, for your accomplishment.

Molly Donlan: She's the best. I, like, this book wouldn't exist without Madison, who, if anyone's not familiar, is my co-host on Demystify Magic. But, you know, she is the reason why I call myself a witch today. Like, if it, if it wasn't for her in my life, I don't think I would be as like loud about who I am. Um, and I think she would say the same about herself. So it's, it's one of those friendships that's like, oh, we've been friends for many, many lives together. Like, we are just accelerators for each other and just like, people always ask us like, you sound like you're really good friends on the podcast. I'm like, yeah, that's because we talk to each other 24/7 365. Like, we actually do really love each other. And yeah, she just, she's amazing. And honestly, that's been the most exciting part of the book so far is just seeing her reaction to like seeing the book dedicated to her was just like, oh, I could cry thinking about it.

Laylla: I wish a friendship like that for everybody. I really do.

Molly Donlan: Truly. That's the real magic. Like, honestly, if you told me like, Molly, you have to give it all up in exchange for keeping Madison, I would, I would not have to think about it. Honestly, like, it's, it's one of those friendships. And, uh, we met on the internet. So, anything's possible, folks. Like, your Madison is out there.

Laylla: That's, that's what I wanted to ask. Now, now Chelle and I met, I'm kind of a nomad, and we met when I moved to her area of New York State decades ago. And we became involved in, uh, Rocky Horror magic together. Oh, hell yeah. Magic together. Theater games. Speak my language. Now I see why we get along. Right? And of course, a local pagan group. We met and immediately became friends, and here we are decades later. So, you say you and Madison met on the internet. Could you just tell us just quickly, you know, because I love good friendships, can you just tell us how you met?

Molly Donlan: Yeah, I, it's so funny. So, we met on TikTok. I was, still am, a creator there. And so she was following me and, you know, like, whatever, didn't know her, you know, so she knew me. And then she was posting witchy content, like really like low-effort witchcraft stuff in like 2021-ish. And she, a post came across my page of her making a money bowl in a mug. And I was just like, I could do that. And I just went and got a mug and I made a money bowl. And I was like, I'm a witch. I did magic, you know? Like, that was my first ever spell that I intentionally did. And so I followed her, and then we did the thing that all good online friendships do before they actually start, and we just sent memes and like videos that we thought each other would like to each other for like months. Um.

Laylla: It's the friend, it's the online friendship courtship stage.

Molly Donlan: Exactly. We were flirting with friendship. And then she launched her, her metaphysical store, and I bought her products and had an amazing experience, posted a video about it, sold out her line. And then she joined my Reiki training, and I was just like, I think we should just be friends. I was like, I slid into her DMs and I was like, do you want to like do a coffee Zoom sometime? And we've just been inseparable ever since.

Laylla: You're like, do you want to be friends? She's like, yeah, do you want to be friends? And you both said yes, and away you went.

Molly Donlan: Yeah. And, and we got on that Zoom and she's like, I'm so glad you asked me because I'd been trying to figure out how I could ask you without being a creep for like months. So we just like, every meme that we sent, we were just like, you know, the, the shot across the bow, like waiting for the other to make the move.

Laylla: I love that. I love that. And, you know, meeting people online, it's, witches are hard to meet sometimes.

Molly Donlan: Oh yeah.

Laylla: Some don't live in places where you can meet other magical-minded souls. And, and so I think it's just as valid to meet someone online and to start a relationship there as it is in the real world. And, and sometimes that's all we have. You just have to be a little more careful, I think.

Molly Donlan: Yeah. Like, the Zoom meeting, and then it was like, you know, I'll meet you at your store. And then, and then we became like, all right, we're just, like I'm house sitting for her in a couple weeks. And I'm like, I'm just going to be in your house when you're not there, like across the country. Is that cool? Cool. Cool.

Laylla: Nice. So the last thing we're going to do is, I have a favorite spell in here, and I'm going to talk about it. And Chelle, do you have a favorite spell that you can pull out?

Chelle: I do. I do. I have one marked here.

Laylla: Perfect. And do you have a favorite spell in the book, Molly?

Molly Donlan: I think so.

Laylla: All right, I'm going to tell us mine. It's the Reverse the Bad Mood Meditation. Oh. And the reason I love it is because in this meditation, you talk about visioning a turkey baster. And squeezing, squeezing the bad things out. I couldn't stop giggling. That is the perfect bad mood buster. It's perfect. I love that.

Molly Donlan: You know, that was a request from Madison. So, you can thank her for that.

Laylla: Thank you, Madison.

Molly Donlan: All of the meditations in the book, I found I can't like write meditations with my hands. And so they were just transcribed from like channeled meditations I did. And so I have no idea where that came from. But if it made you smile, it did its job.

Laylla: Exactly. And, okay, I was like freaking out over here when you said that, and our listeners can't see me, but I do the same thing when I do meditations. I do the exact same thing because it's just.

Molly Donlan: You do, you do.

Laylla: My brain works, it's, it's kind of like sometimes when I'm channeling readings, my brain works too fast for me to type it. And so I can't, I have to say it. Um, and so I do meditations the same way. I love that. But anything that can get you out of yourself if you're in a bad mood, anything that can get you to see something a little bit different and give you that moment of joy is perfect. So, turkey baster meditation, my favorite. So, what's your, what's your favorite?

Chelle: So my favorite is actually, because this is something, this is the bane of every person's existence, this brings the masses down on their knees. Ah, paying bills. Oh. So, you talk about practicing gratitude, uh, here. And when you're paying a bill, especially a car payment, I got a car payment, in my opinion and in my life, I feel like it's hefty. And the first one you have, "I am grateful for my car because it gets me safely around." Like, I don't think of that when I'm calling to make my payment, and maybe this will help me. You know, I, "I'm grateful for the electricity so I can read late at night." I forget that when National Grid bill comes, you know? I think that what made this my favorite is it makes you take things that seem so draining, emotionally, mentally, physically, financially, and, and make you realize, you know, that ain't so bad.

Molly Donlan: Mhm.

Chelle: If I pay this bill, I got my car. If I pay this bill, I got my Netflix. If I pay this bill, you know, it's almost like getting something off your plate. This was my favorite, again, not necessarily a meditation, but more like practicing gratitude, acts of gratitude. But it really kind of struck a chord because I feel like that is the one thing that, it's hard to find joy in paying bills, damn it.

Molly Donlan: Yeah. Yeah, that was something I really wanted to stick in there because I think there's, you know, there's a million witches online and in witchy books that will teach you how to do a money spell to overcome a bill or erase your debt or whatever. And like, sure, those are, those are valid and great and we love them. But at the end of the day, everyone's going to have a bill. And witchcraft and magic can't erase them all. And so if we constantly push them away and we constantly see them as like negative and whatever, then like.

Chelle: We're building that anxiety around them.

Molly Donlan: Yeah, and it's not really serving us, right? Like, I kind of see magic as not running away from the things that are shit in life, but like leaning into them and like, it can suck and also I can find like a glimmer of gratitude for it to make it suck a little less.

Chelle: Right, and that's what I loved about that little piece because it, it reminds you that you can make it suck a little less. I love how you put that.

Laylla: And that gets back to stacking little things. The more you can stack that gratitude, the more that you tell the universe that you are grateful for these things, that helps to allow them to show up in your life a little bit more and to see it when it does.

Molly Donlan: Mhm.

Laylla: All right, Molly.

Molly Donlan: Okay, my favorite, my favorite changes all the time. I think every time someone asks me, it's going to change. But I'll tell you the one that I think about often is, I used to be someone who, I, I bring a glass of water to bed every night so I can take my meds before bed and drink my water while I'm reading. And what happens is at the end of the week, there's somehow 700 glasses of water next to my bed. And there's too many for me to carry, and then it's like, now I start putting them on my husband's nightstand, and then now his nightstand is covered, and then we don't have any glassware in the kitchen. And I'm like, I don't know how that happened again. And so that, that was the inspiration behind the nightstand altar. Because one thing about my office is it's always a mess except for my altar. Altar is, everything has its place, right? It might be dusty, right? There might be some wax on it. But I'm not throwing random stuff on it, you know? I'm not put the socks there and glasses of water.

Chelle: There's an order to it. There's an order to it.

Molly Donlan: Yes, it's my chaos. And so I thought to myself, what if I treated my nightstand like an altar and I set the intention for sleep? And so everything has its place on the nightstand. And now that water, when I set it next to my bed, it's no longer just a glass of water I can forget about. It's a protection spell. The water is going to protect my energy, collect any emotions I'm off-gassing in my dreams, and then I'm going to feed it to my plants in the morning and bring it back to the ecosystem after. And you know what? Sometimes I still have glasses of water on my nightstand, I'll tell you that, but it's not nearly as bad as it was before.

Laylla: I love that.

Chelle: You can always put them on your husband's nightstand.

Molly Donlan: Yeah, he doesn't have an altar, so it's free range. Free range, right?

Laylla: I love how you build spells on things that you already do, things that people already do in their life. Because if you're going to try and go out of your way to do something unusual, my brain won't do it. My brain will build that little thing into a huge mountain and I won't do it. But if it's something I'm already doing, like, like you said, you already know you're bringing water to your nightstand, and you've created this altar, this space, it has a purpose, it has a thing. This is something you're already doing. And so you kind of stack just a little bit, just a little change on top of that, and it can make it so much more intentional and magical. I love that.

Molly Donlan: Yeah, and now my lip mask is also imbued with magic. So, win-win.

Laylla: Win-win. Nice. So, everyone should go out and get this book. Again, it is called Mundane Magic: A Lazy Witch's Guide to Hacking Your Brain, Building a Daily Practice, and Getting Stuff Done by Molly Donlan. And we will put links to your website, to Demystify Magic, to your Instagram, all the wonderful fun things. And you mentioned something about Reiki classes?

Molly Donlan: Mhm. Yeah, I have a Reiki training program. Um, the level one is called Reiki 1: The Science of Self-Healing. And it's all, like if you like Mundane Magic, the way that I teach those practices, you will love my Reiki training because I really built it for, you know, Molly 10 years ago who couldn't find one that worked for her. So it's really grounded in the science behind the practice. It's grounded in that two minutes a day is more effective than 60 minutes once a month. And one thing about a lot of Reiki trainings, not to knock them, but I found that I had more questions after the trainings than I had in the weekend that I took the class. And so I like to say we, we give you more support than like any Reiki training on the planet. Like, your Reiki practice doesn't end and begin in a weekend, so your support shouldn't either. So we have like a whole community of graduates that are also really aligned with this, that are cheering you on, that are watching the modules together, that are connecting in our monthly events, and yeah, it's just like an amazing, amazing program that you can find all the details about on my website. But it's very like in the same ethos as Mundane Magic.

Laylla: Perfect. Well, we will put links to that. Chelle is a Reiki master, and it's something I've always been interested in. I know our listeners are interested, so we will make sure you have lots of links to that so people can check that out as well.

Molly Donlan: Yeah.

Laylla: Thank you so much, Molly, for being on the podcast.

Chelle: Thank you, Molly. Thank you for giving us your time.

Molly Donlan: Oh my gosh. Thank you. This was, I know I'm probably not supposed to say this, but, you know, it's only the fans here now. This was low-key like one of my favorite podcasts I've ever been on.

Chelle: Thank you.

Laylla: Thank you.

Molly Donlan: And I'm not just saying that to blow smoke at you. Outside of my own podcast, because I have to put my child first, but this one's number two.

Laylla: Awesome. Well, thank you very much. You have been a blast. You've been so much fun and so informative, and this book is the same, I'm telling you. I know I keep pushing it like it's my job here, but I really loved your book, and it's wonderful.

Chelle: I just feel like you guys are so much like Laylla and I that it's, I feel like we're some warped mirror image of each other, and I think that's why we just love you so much.

Molly Donlan: Oh my god, yeah. I'm like, why have we not hung out before? That's, that's really the question I've just been wondering this entire time, and we need to, we need to fix that. Like, let's all get on a group chat and meet somewhere central to all of us and just, you know, go ghost hunting. Perfect.

Laylla: Oh.

Chelle: Ooh, ghost hunting.

Laylla: We're going to take the skeptic ghost hunting.

Molly Donlan: Oh my god. No, you see, okay, this is, this is a rabbit hole for another time, but like I, I was raised to believe in ghosts. My mom hunted ghosts in her 20s. Yeah. And she, she literally wanted to do it full-time, but they said she needed a psychology degree to like, you know, rule out hallucinations first. So she said, I don't want to go to school, and joined the army instead. And so I, I was raised believing wholeheartedly in ghosts. Skeptic of everything else, ghosts, full believer.

Laylla: Perfect. Yes. Well, we have ghost hunting in our future then. I love that. All right, before we go for another hour, I am going to say goodbye to Molly. So again, thank you, thank you so much. And we will have you back. We'll definitely have you back and, and do some more fun.

Chelle: This is definitely not the last conversation we are going to have, for sure.

Molly Donlan: Oh yeah. I love it. Thank you so much.

Chelle: So wow, that was so much fun. I, you know, I miss having folks on, and I miss having fabulous, wonderful conversations. So I'm so glad that it is, is author month.

Laylla: And I'm so glad that we had Molly on to be our first guest of 2026 because she's awesome, and we definitely need to have her back on. We could have kept talking. We talked for a solid hour, and we had to like force ourselves to, to hang up because we all got along so well.

Chelle: Yeah, absolutely. So, folks, we hope you enjoyed the conversation as much as we did, and rest assured, we will definitely have Molly back in the future. Don't doubt it.

Laylla: And I'm going to hold you both to the ghost hunting idea, so.

Chelle: Absolutely.

Laylla: All right, everyone, thank you so much for listening to this episode. Please check out Molly's book. We'll have links for all of it in the show notes. And as usual, please like, subscribe, give us some stars, give us some reviews. It helps the show out, and it helps people to find us. So, as usual, be wise, be wicked, and watch out for those Friday the 13th superstitions.

Chelle: While you're keeping it witchy.
