Chelle: Welcome to Back on the Broomstick, a modern witches' spoken word grimoire, where two witchy friends from way back are reconnecting to their pagan roots after a long period of mundanity.

Laylla: We're rewalking the path of the wise and trying out all the latest spells, rituals, and magical theory in today's witchcraft and pagan practices.

Chelle: So grab your wand and your incense, your cauldron and your crystals, and join us as we get back on the broomstick.

Laylla: Hi, and welcome to Back on the Broomstick. I'm Laylla, and today we're welcoming Jane Matthews to the podcast. Jane is a director with the World Divination Association, an author, medium, and teacher who works with runes, tarot, Ogham, and natural magic. Living in Northern Ireland, she helps people reconnect with their inner magic through symbols and practical divination. On this episode, we're talking to Jane about working with Ogham and symbol, sigils, and how they help us connect to our own inner wisdom.

Chelle: And I'm Chelle, and let me tell you, we all know how I am about tarot, which I only got eight decks in the last week or two. And the fact that you are the director of the World Divination Center just peaks my interest. So, I wanted to kind of start with what is the World Divination Association and how can I best utilize it? Because I love all things divination.

Jane: And so, World Divination is a place for everyone that loves divination to be able to divine and learn and encourage others with that. And we have a, I think around 200 courses, different things that people can buy to actually learn, not just the systems themselves, but also going further into techniques within those systems. We offer endorsed qualification for people who want to go onto an endorsement that we will actually, you know, hold them to account. So, we give them exercises and they've got to reach a level of professional standard to be able to actually, you know, when anybody sees that they've like endorsed with World Divination, then with that, they've got the confidence that they've been put through rigorous training to be able to become endorsed. So, they are a good, competent reader, which gives confidence. And also, we give a lot of free courses and things as well. So, it's a way of giving back and being weird and just really having fun doing things that normally most people don't really do.

Laylla: Welcome to the show, Jane. Thank you so much for being here. And if you would, please introduce yourself a little bit. Tell us a little bit about you and your background.

Jane: So, I'm Jane, and I'm one of the directors of World Divination. And my background actually really stems from just mediumship first and foremost. So, when I was young, younger, my friends, everybody wanted to know, so if they had a potential boyfriend, for example, they would come, want to know what the tea was. And because everything that I would be saying would be happening, including what words were going to be coming out of people's mouths next in sentences, were actually said. So, my friends actually kind of used to call upon me at times when they didn't trust themselves or certain others around them. Not just relationships, but also friendships, too. So, it kind of stemmed from there. My background began in healthcare, so I was around a lot of poorly people and experienced, you know, a lot of passing with that. So, I always knew that there was something far more out there. I just wasn't entirely sure as to what it was as such in that nature. And then from that, I actually, I actually was in a car accident myself, which literally changed the direction of my life. And in that accident, the car hit my head on, and I actually did go into that light. And I've never felt as safe, I've never felt as calm, as loved, as at peace. And it was such a brilliance, but it wasn't one that actually pained your eyes. It wasn't so dazzling that it burned, but it was so dazzling that, you know, you couldn't see anything other than that. And I actually asked, was I, was I staying there? And I was told no. And at that point, I woke up trapped in my car with men pulling on the handles trying to get me out. So, from that, I kind of had a different experience of the world in that, in that way. And it just, it kind of deepened my own beliefs that I'd held. And there's been times in my life where I've kind of been kicking and screaming on a spiritual path. You know, you know that way when you just kind of, you follow your own rules, so to speak, and you master your own destiny. That kind of kicks your ass a little bit. And from that then, you kind of, right, just, I tell you what, you just take that lead and I will follow. And I, and I was lucky then to be able to kind of delve into tarot. And tarot was something that actually was really natural. It was just another addition to, to what I already had within myself. So, I was able to, I found myself able to kind of, you know, really converse and understand things. And I've always had a particular interest with regards to the Elder Futhark runes because where I was actually born and raised is massive Viking history. There was like a Viking sword found in somebody's back garden in my town, as well as all the Roman things. So, there was a lot of kind of, with that as well, Cumbria was actually the last kingdom to fall to England, so to speak. So, whereas other, all the other counties in England were actually, you know, parts and within their own countries, Cumbria was its own and it was its last. Our dialect, you know, still has some similarities with it. We lost our language, which was a Celtic variation language. And I've always kind of been drawn to the runes and drawn to everything Celtic within that. It's kind of, it took me on a lot of different, different pathways, different journeys. Runes are something that I actually, oh, I love. And the energy that they have is, they very commanding and they demand respect when you actually use them. And I really like that. You know, what, a system that's got such a strength to it that, you know, you, you don't tell it, and there's no trying to tell yourself something different either. The runes will tell you exactly how it is, and that's the way it is, and that's that. So, I was like, wow, you know. And I was actually, with regards to like sigils and things, I was really drawn. I was seeing, actually seeing like symbology everywhere and sigils, and I was actually just sitting myself down and trying to understand further what it meant. Because you get a lot of things happening and, and tools like tarot and tools like runes and things are, are magnificent. But I will say that's what they are, aren't they? They're tools that allow us to unlock the magic that's within us. So, we have to just be open enough, you know, within ourselves to actually really experience everything that's around. And, you know, that ties in with like all of energy, everything, you know, everything is, everything has been, and everything will be. And we, you know, that's just, it's how we choose or like to tap into it. Some people don't like, you know, a lot of people in the world don't like divination, but they trust the gut. Within that aspect, you know, it's like, well, there's an element of being guided, isn't there, within that? You know, just like, well, I don't, my guides are telling me this isn't such a good thing. You know, I feel, I'm not feeling that it's such a good thing. So, it's, you know, there's no difference within that. I think it's just how we allow ourselves to open to the potential of more because there always is. And I think part of it is actually having fun with that. So, I ask questions, questions that most people say, "I wouldn't dare ask my tarot deck that," you know. "How am I going to play in my next game of Call of Duty?" You know, "How am I going to fare?" Because I love Call of Duty. So, I, I want to know about my life. You know, if I want to sit down and ask about the profound, I'll sit and do that. But sometimes I just want to have a chatter because they're, they're a relationship, and it's something that you pour energy into. So, when you're sitting and having a catch-up, you know, you, you spend your time, you have a bit of a chatty. You maybe call one friend for 10 minutes on the phone. You maybe have one that you'll speak to for an hour. They have different types of conversations with different friends as well. And some friends you don't hear from for months in time, and when you pick up the phone, there's a little bit of a "shh," but it's all right. I still kind of, we're still friends. And I think how you treat your systems is very much that same way. It's a relationship, and they speak.

Chelle: I love that analogy that it's, that it's like friendships because you're so right. And I, I wanted to just touch on, I feel like kind of what you're saying is there's that connection and that conversation, so to say, no matter what form of divination you're using. So, you can get that same connection and, and message whether it's tarot or whether it's runes or whether it's the Ogham, whatever the case may be. So, it kind of sounds like it's more about the message and the connection than maybe your tool. Is that correct?

Jane: Well, for me, I think the two of them go hand in hand. You can't have a connection and then be able to really kind of express everything that it's, it's stating. You like, you can't, if you're not into, say, I'm not into love and romance novels. But if I was to try and read a love and romance book, I'd be like, I wouldn't give it half of the justice that it deserved because I'd already be biased to the fact that actually don't like these kind of books and that I find them rather, you know, boring or whatever. So, I think it's that same, it's that same way. It's just, it's kind of like understanding how, how your own biases are. And I think that goes even then at that point, it goes beyond divination and it actually, you know, you, you really go within your, your spirituality or even, you know, your, your physical reality with that because you look, you're talking about self-growth. And you're talking about understanding yourself on levels like fundamental levels that then kind of, you know, you're challenging your own bias. You're realizing that every single, you know, construct that you might be holding within yourself, is it actually a construct that's healthy? Is it one that's yours? And if it's, if it's not yours, where has it been placed upon you? And being able to understand that, and from that then even saying, "Well, okay, so I can understand that, but is this still relevant to me now then? Is this still applicable to me now?" And then being able to within yourself be like, you know, "Wow, well, no, I've grown." And it allows you to kind of evolve in really healthy ways. And I think that's the part, especially when it comes to anything energetic, whether it's, you know, spirituality, whether with regards to any kind of manifesting, because everybody loves to manifest. And it's, it's, you know, it's that same kind of, it's understanding when you understand yourself on a fundamental level and you understand the scale of all of what you are, the good bits and the really crappy bits and the bits that's all right in between, and you can actually to yourself even just sit there and, and see that spectrum and understand it, and understand then how it all kind of affects and works, how that flows within yourself. When you do that, you can really understand everything else that's around you and, and you can really manifest from that too because you've not only got an essence of your own energy and being able to feel it that way and work with it because you're actually able to, you know, control your own emotions, control your own states, you know, control your own flow, but you're actually realizing the difference of the flows that's around you and the ways in which they can influence you. So, you can actually, you know, when I'm speaking of like manifesting, it's like you could walk into a room where you'd usually feel really uncomfortable, but you can actually allow yourself to flow in ways that make it a more settling situation. And from that, it's more empowering for you. You come out of that feeling confident rather than feeling depleted or less than in some way. So, I think it's, you know, it, it can create, you know, that, that fundamental look at yourself can create some seismic shifts with regards to divination and with regards to, you know, walking your spiritual path.

Laylla: Nice. A lot of what you're saying sounds a lot like conversations with the universe and conversations with energy. And, and it makes sense that a couple of these divination systems started out as alphabets. They started out as, as a language. And so, being able to connect with them, connect with words, words themselves can be spells, the words that we tell ourselves, how we shape our language, we're, we're speaking with ourselves and speaking with other people can really affect our mood and like you said, kind of connecting with that flow, connecting with where we want to go. If we shift our language, we can shift to where we want to go. And just think it's kind of interesting that some of these started out as actual alphabets and languages. And you have a couple books. You have one coming out this year on Ogham. Okay, sidetrack here. Is it pronounced Ogham or Ogham?

Jane: Ogham.

Laylla: Ogham. Thank you. All right, so you have a book coming out on Ogham, and you also have a book on sigils. I hear you talking runes. These are all symbols, some of which started out as an alphabet, as a language. Can you tell me a little bit about symbol divination and how language and alphabets fit in with that?

Jane: Well, with regards to like of the Elder Futhark runes and the, and the same with Ogham, they're fundamentally, they're an alphabet, and the alphabet, any alphabet forms the basis of a written language. First and foremost, that's how I actually treat Ogham. There's massive associations to trees and things like that, but much with the same way as the Elder Futhark, a lot of them are, they're all associations. And they've all got folklore and stories behind them. And I think that that's magnificent, and that there is, you know, fantastic storytellers who need to keep that folklore alive. Um, I'm, I try my hardest to keep kind of the alphabet alive and its energy in that sense. So, because I think it's, it's so much more within that because it's, Cumbrian was Cumbric. The language was Cumbric, and it was lost. So, you try to kind of preserve the alphabets because I think they're really important, especially with the energies in which they carry. You know, you talk about things that's from 400, you know, the year 400. And it's like, you know, think of the, the power of those words then, you know, think about the actual power of the letters that were brought, you know, and, and the essence within that. And when tying them in, you know, I always, especially when I'm teaching in particular runes, and I always say runes are an energy. Each one of them has its own energy. And I don't try and downplay what that is in any way, but I also try to make it applicable because sometimes the big concepts of what things are, you can get, you know, you, you can get lost in that and, and you're sweating on the small stuff. But you can, you know, by actually understanding how those energies work within you and how they work for you as well, is, you know, treating them as that. And, and that is a, you know, sacred in that way. When you understand that and how it feels, it makes it much easier when you want to use them for the likes of a sigil, for example, because you're able to really fuse those energies together because you've experienced, you know what those energies feel like, you know what they invoke within yourself, and you're actually able then to kind of use yourself as that tool to actually merge those energies as you put creating them, them sigils or bind runes. With regards to sigils, I mean, you know, the Romans, the sacred seals, you know, they're classed as in a, in a form of, of parasympathetic magic that way because it's, you know, it's magic that's been performed, but it's when you look at the actual, you know, the symbol itself, it invokes something and that's a reminder to you that something's being done. It's a visual in that sense. So, when I actually, um, because I was using the sigils that I'd seen, that I was seeing everywhere, and I understood what they meant, I worked with them for myself. And then I started using them helping others, um, because when I look at anything like that, I'd, I see it as the only kind of, for me, ethical way to actually really use magic in a balanced way or work with energy in a balanced way is for really pure reasons that way. And it's ones that's to empower rather than to detract. Um, so it's always for an improvement and a striving for. Um, and I think for that reason, it kind of keeps you on that straight and narrow when trying to deal with energies around you because energies, energy, and, you know, it's like when they say with luck, there's no good luck and there's no bad luck, there is just luck. It's just how it falls on our feet, isn't it? How we find it. Has it been lucky for us or not? So, it's like we, it's that straight kind of keeping that straight path, uh, with regards to your own neutrality with what you're doing, too, and understand that when you're putting in is a pure heart for just an improvement, a betterment, and an empowerment. Um, and I think that that's the most, the purest way to actually work with energies for myself because it, it kind of, it's cleansing when you're doing that, too, because of the ways in which you're actually, you know, you're able to help in a lot of ways with a lot of things. Um, and, and that's, that's all you strive for in life is to help everybody grow. And I think that, um, I, I was very fortunate that Red Feather Publishing actually took, um, took my manuscript on and with the deck. Um, I actually, I was doing the sigils, using the sigils, and, um, my partner Tony says, "You need to actually write this down. You need to put this out there." And, um, Red Feather picked it up and, and it was, you know, if one person created some positive change for themselves, then it was entirely worth it for me.

Laylla: Nice. Nothing like a good partner to light the fire under you.

Jane: Pushing me to get. Well, sometimes you don't think, do you? You don't think that things are, are worth sharing in that way, that the people that are needing them are going to come to you. But you don't, didn't see it possible even that it would be, you know, something that would occur. So, it was, it wasn't something that you would consider for me to be.

Laylla: Oh, we, we get it, Jane. Trust me. We get it. We started out just having conversations, and now we're talking to you in Northern Ireland. You never know where some of these things are going to take you, right?

Chelle: No, you talk about how these symbols, whether it be sigils, whether it be the Ogham, whether it be runes, that, that the energy is with the symbol. So, that leads me to a burning question I have had for you. Ever since we knew we were going to chat with you, this has been my number one question. So, I have a set of the Ogham sticks.

Jane: Yes.

Chelle: And I love these. They are gorgeous.

Chelle: She pulled one for me for my birthday.

Laylla: I did. But my question is, and this goes for runes as well. So, I bought these at a, I'm in Salem, Massachusetts, and I bought these at a local metaphysical store. And when you read about things online, it tells you you have to have 25 different woods, or with the runes, you have to have your runes put on bones. Is that necessarily the case? And you just came out with a card deck for the Ogham. So, I was like, hey, if she's putting them on cards, they can't be on 25 different trees. The internet will tell me that these aren't as effective because they're not on 25 different woods. Is that true?

Jane: No. In my opinion, I would say no. And the reason I would say no, and this is one of the reasons why I did Ogham in card form and kind of pull away from the trees, because it is such a beautiful, beautiful system. But a lot of people get trapped in the association with the trees, more so than what they actually, you know, you're being told by that few itself. The trees of Ogham are native to Ireland.

Laylla: You're not going to find those here in Northeast New, in Northeast America.

Jane: And for me, then, that's an absolute shame that it's not able to be shared, isn't it? It's a shame that it's not. It's a shame that then you can only use those woods that, it's not really keeping the system...

Laylla: Alive, so to say.

Jane: ...alive, yes. It's making it actually more insular. And I think at a time when, you know, everybody seeks to understand more about themselves, it's something that really, you know, everybody, I like to make things accessible for all. That's why I try to make it as kind of, break it down in different themes and things for people, because I understand a lot of people just want to, want to get right to the meat of it, don't they? So, they want to know, they don't want to know all the ins and outs, and they want to know what it means for this, or they want to know what it means for that. So, kind of helped along the way with putting meanings with applicable themes. I think it's important to actually see Ogham as that alphabet first and foremost, because that is when really you see the magic of it truly coming alive for you.

Chelle: You mentioned just a little bit ago bind runes, and I understand using the Elder Futhark, you can put them together to form essentially sigils, a bind rune, to create bigger meanings, to create bigger connections between the different symbols. Is that something that you can do with Ogham? Are you writing out words, or is it more a symbol?

Jane: Yes. And I'm going to get my book out for you. But first off, that is Ogham. That is the word Ogham. So, that is Ogham written in the Ogham alphabet.

Chelle: Oh, I love that.

Jane: That's what Ogham looks like when it's written. It's a sequence of lines like that. It's magical, isn't it?

Chelle: Looks like twigs. Reminds me of tree twigs.

Jane: In the book, I actually have, I'll show you how to actually do it like for the words.

Chelle: That's in a circle. You made it in a circle. Oh, that's different.

Jane: You can make it in a lot of ways. Magic goes in a lot of different ways, doesn't it? It's how you actually feel and are using it. You're the one that's directing that energy. So, if you're conducting that orchestra, you know, it's got to feel, that flow's got to feel right for you that way.

Chelle: I've worked with sigils, and I know there's lots of different ways to create sigils, magical symbols. And you talked about having visions through mediumship or through divination, seeing full drawn symbols to be able to use as well, which is another way to connect with different types of sigils. I guess I'm used to bind runes that seem very, very mathematical, very precise, which is one of the things I like about them. But what I like about sigils is you can be as mathematical or as artistic and free as you need to be.

Jane: You can even use like magic number squares and things like that to create sigils with the planets and things. I mean, there's whole, you know, when you think about the infinite ways that you can create and the infinite possibilities that's out there then to be able to do that. The only thing that really slows yourself is actually yourself within that. So, you're really, you know, when you actually, it's learning how you work and it's learning how you flow with that too, because we all have our slightly different approaches to things. So, and that's all right. And I think that should be encouraged too. I think it's the principles stay the same. It's like if people do any kind of like candle magic or things like that, you'll see people who use kind of the same colors for the same phases. They have, you know, your associations and that. Any candle would work. These, all the extras that you're putting on is like putting spices in your food. You know, you may be putting a bit of salt in, or you may be putting a bit of pepper in. You're flavoring it to your taste that way. And everything ultimately is actually just coming from yourself and your will. You know, you're pouring, you're pouring that from yourself into that to be able to see, see it happening, to have that association and then, you know, you use the planets and different things to kind of hone in, or sigils to be able to hone in. But we all have magic within ourselves. It's just, I'm still discovering a lot of mine, you know. It's a, it's a constant path. And I think we should all, it's one that we should all kind of embrace and open ourselves to, because your life will shift and in ways that's mind-blowing at times.

Laylla: And it's a path, I feel, that you never stop learning, which I think makes it more fun, honestly.

Jane: That's it. When you're learning any system, right, if you're learning, and I done a reel on this the other day, whatever system it is that you're learning, you've got to have fun with it. If you don't have fun, you're not going to want to learn. You know, you've got to be able to have fun. And it's what kind of keeps you going. And there's times when you get called out by your cards or whatever, and you know, you actually laugh. You know, you'll pull a spread and you'll actually laugh, because you know, you know, and it's kind of like you've got, it's, it's lovely. You just, you've got to have fun, and you've got to have a sense of humor as well. You know, I, I used to sit and be shuffling, and I'd just be like, say on TV when I'd be watching a show, and then the interval would come on. When the interval come on, my cards would be in my hands, and I'd be telling them what, ask them what's going to be coming next. And then I'd be reading my cards and saying what was going to be happening in the next segment. And then, you know, that's a good way of gaining confidence too, because you're like, "I knew it. I nailed it. I nailed it. Oh, I never quite saw it as that." You know, and it helps you kind of to understand or, or even like kind of broaden your meanings in a lot of ways as well, because you've got experiences. It's the, the, the reason is a story. You know, any system, no matter what it is in the world, is, it tells you a story. And whatever story it is, is whatever story you're asking it to tell. And a lot of times, you know, people, you tell them the story of somebody's life when people comes for a reading, and that's a real honor. It's a real privilege. I mean, think about it. There's people that don't trust themselves, don't trust anybody else, looking for some, some, some, some sign, somewhere. You know, giving them hope in a situation to be able to go through it, you know, know that they've got this, know that it's going to be all right. You know, it's a, it's an absolute honor to read for someone. It's an absolute privilege to be actually be trusted so much and sacredly so to have that, you know, open up the book of their life, the story of their life, and read it for them. It's quite a profound and humbling experience, I think. So, you've got to find fun, because you've got to see all the different types of stories that it can tell you, you know, for yourself before you can really understand and read for others with that true kind of delivery in a compassionate way, but one that actually, you know, feel good afterwards rather than thinking, "Ah." They could still be going through the same crap, sure. But they know that they've got this. Somebody once said, "Jane, you make bad news sound good." And I was like, "Well, it's an art, I suppose."

Laylla: I do like that as an exercise, though, to shuffle up the cards in between show segments. That is an absolute wonderful practice idea, and I'm actually going to try that.

Jane: And I also think as well, if you're new to a system and you're learning one, there's always something, isn't there? There's always like some card or some rune or some few that kind of triggers you on some level. Like, you know, you'll see Hagalaz and you're like, "Ah, shit." And then you'll see the Death card and you'll be like, or Tower is like, "FML." Like, you want to bang your head against the wall like, "No, you know, I'm not having this today." And you kind of, you can trigger yourself when you're starting as well.

Chelle: Jane, are you calling me out? You just, you just mentioned the rune that keeps following me around and the tarot card that I keep pulling. What, what are you trying to say to me here, Jane?

Laylla: She's telling you that it's all about perspective.

Jane: It is. I, I always say, there was a lady in Sweden, and, and I'm forever grateful for her giving me this bit of knowledge. But she actually said, "You know, the best thing to do is not ask about your day. It's ask about the day prior, the one you've already experienced." Because if Death pops up, like, you know, you've been there, you've done it. Hagalaz shows it's like, "Yeah, goddamn, I've had this."

Chelle: I made it. I made it through.

Jane: Yeah. And you haven't got that same kind of emotional with it when you're beginning, you know. So, I think that's always as well is a good, is a good way to kind of, if, if you're easily triggered with some of the, the heavier runes. And with Hagalaz, I mean, yes, Hagalaz is, you know, it's disruption. It's hail. It's coming around, you know. It's around you. It's relentless. It's coming down on you. Well, what, on a normal day-to-day basis, you know, I get Hagalaz when the internet's going to start playing funny and things. But on a daily basis, you know, Hagalaz, it's coming external from you. It's not yours, you know. So, whatever it is, whether it's people getting their hackles up and being, you know, there's been delays on every road, you know, there's just stuff that's just impeding you, but it's all external that's coming in and putting you off everything that you want to do. What do you do at that point? You just become the eye of that storm. You maintain that calm, and you watch that carnage going on around you, because there's nothing that you can do to actually sort it. You know, you've got to wait for the hail, the storm, to pass. So, you've just got to sit there, you know, be the eye of that storm whilst everything's, you know, going on around. You can actually gain some insights within that. But you can also still, you know, while you're getting moving about, because you've still got to flow within that, haven't you? You know, whilst you're actually circulating within that little line moving and seeing that the power of it weaken eventually, you know, as all storms do, you're able to see pathways and, and, and perspectives that you might not have had. It's not always Wizard of Oz and you're going to get tossed, you know. You can, you can utilize it with wisdom in, in ways that can actually really move you forward.

Laylla: I'm going to carry that with me forever. Be the eye of the storm.

Jane: You can't, you can't control anybody else or anything else, you know. But you can yourself. So, when everything else is going wild around you, it's all the more important for you to kind of be that, isn't it? Because at that point, you know, you've got logic and rationality, because you've, you're clear. There's no storm. You know, you're that eye, when it's always peaceful and calm in the eye, isn't it? So, you've, you've not got all of them disruptive thoughts or emotions or anything. You know, you're just kind of, you're detached in, in its essence, and able to really see things and understand things for how they are. And that, at that point, with regards to anything, you know, that's when solutions are found, aren't they? If you think about struggling with a work project, that's, that's when that kind of comes, is when you can literally do that. And, and I think it's, it's a beautiful rune.

Chelle: I think that you've described a beautiful way of being in the world, a way to work with divination. Like, you're the director. You're a director of the World Divination Association. And you talk about just learning all the time and casually reading cards or pulling runes between shows or while you're doing things. And I love that, because learning all the time and being familiar with these consistently, just pulling them for mundane things, pulling them for the day before, which is flipping brilliant, which is, I'm writing that down as soon as we're done here, because that is such a good way to get used to it and to get used to trusting yourself. But my point here is that I love the idea of being so used to reading whatever form of divination you're comfortable with so often for whatever reason. Just, is this person going to win, um, you know, America's Next Top Model? I don't know. You know, whatever reason, but just being that comfortable with it helps you to see patterns, and it helps you to trust your intuition, and it helps you to know yourself a little better, I think, and not just know the divination, but it really helps you to be very, very familiar if you're immersing yourself in that way. And I think that's a beautiful way to learn and to be comfortable with it. Is there a particular exercise or way of working with a particular type of divination that you like to do regularly?

Jane: So, myself and Tony, we teach spiritual development together. And, um, we say the two of us, every single night we meditate before we go to sleep. And that is our time with spirit for us to learn. And, and we'll sit, sometimes we'll sit and we'll pull cards about what we should meditate on tonight and things, you know. So, it's just, we, we try and integrate everything into our daily life. Like, Tony's got, well, she's actually written a book on Tarot de Marseille.

Chelle: Oh.

Jane: Tony's the founder of the World Divination. And Maria actually wrote a book on tarot as well. There's a lot of things that we all kind of implement and integrate into our lives. And I think it's just, when things become a norm and second nature that way, and it's just, I've got, I've got, I've got tarot sat next to me. I've got my Ogham deck. I've got Jen Sankey's Manifesting with the Moon book.

Chelle: Looks like our offices, Jane. You're just grabbing tarot decks, reaching over. We got this tarot deck here, this...

Jane: Tony pulls out ice cream oracles. So, we'll sit and we'll have an ice cream oracle for the day and things like that. It's just, just how we live. And when we're teaching, um, spiritual development and things, one of the biggest things is understanding your own energy, isn't it? And actually growing. Tony always speaks about the importance of growing your energies. And I actually think it is, you know, because the, the stronger you are in your energies is, the stronger you are in yourself, the way things are. And, and whether that's doing any kind of like magic or things like that, or whether it's doing healing work, because again, you've, you've got to work with energies. You've got to fundamentally be able to feel them, work, to be able to work with them and, and utilize them. You know, it, it works, it's part of everyday life. Tony does a lot of Ho'oponopono and, and things like that. So, she'll actually be doing mantras while she's cooking and watching TV and things like that. So, it's just, I think one of the fun things is just that, you know, it's a very normal, I'm a very normal person with a very normal life, but I just, I integrate a lot of not-so-normal things within that in each day.

Chelle: I guess depends on who you ask if they're normal or not. I...

Laylla: Sounds normal to me. And along that same lines, that's why I always keep a tarot deck with me. I keep a tarot deck in my bag. So, I'm at the grocery store. I could pull a deck right out of my bag, right in aisle five. But I feel like carrying it with me, you know, I'm not using my deck at the grocery store, but it's in my bag. And I feel like having it with me at all times kind of creates that energetic connection. It is traveling with me throughout my day, even if I'm not pulling cards. It's kind of immersed in that same energy that I am all day, every day.

Jane: Oh, get that. I, I have that. I have that with crystals, right? So, I, I like to, I often, I get, I look at a nice crystal and I carry it with me for a while. And there was months, and I mean months and months, I was using black tourmaline. It was with me 24/7. And it was under my pillow at night. Well, one night it dropped behind the bed. Well, the bed's so heavy, can't get it out. I was actually like bereft that the fact that my crystal was gone from me, and it was like separation. It was like, "No, but I can feel it there. It's not happy behind the bed," and things. And so, yeah, I understand that. It's like, it's that need, um, within it. I think there also as well, it's kind of like, on an aspect of that, you could say, "Well, you've got that tarot deck with you. You feel more confident. You feel more empowered. You've got all the wisdom of everything that you could possibly want to know." Not that you want to know it, but you could if you wanted to, anyway.

Laylla: If I wanted to, it's in my bag.

Jane: But you've actually got that within yourself, haven't you? You know, we all have, and it's just how we open ourselves up in that way to be able to get that. People think that like mediumship in particular is like big neon signs of, you know, guides coming and being, you know, spirit showing itself. And yes, it can be, but it is so subtle in the same way. And if you're wanting neon signs, it's certainly not Vegas. It's, you know, it is a lot more kind of, unless you're asking it for that, uh, for those answers. If you're asking for a neon sign, but a lot of ways, it's, it's the way that a, a breeze feels against your face when it's suddenly been, you know, you've spoke something or questioned something. It's the way that kind of, you know, you walking and you ask, I was in an airport last week. Um, I'd been to visit my parents, and I'd actually prayed, "Please make this airport, like, go smooth through this airport, find my way." And it was like, it was like a dream. And it's like things like that, you know. I used to, um, one of my friends says to me, "Am I going to be getting paid today?" And I'm like, I'm thinking, "Is she going to be getting paid today?" And the next minute, there's big flashing delay signs on, uh, roadworks. Next minute, I was like, "Well, you know, yes, but probably not till later on in the day," as in, you know, and, and it was right. So, it's, it's how you ask. We also, Tony loves, um, vans. So, the vans, different colors of vans and different makes of like lorries, trucks, bring messages. So, you can say like Montgomery's a good, good luck bus. But if we see another one, and I won't see its name, but it's yellow, um, and red, when we've literally spoken its name on lives, the internet's cut out before. It cut, you know that there's going to be something coming towards you in that day, some kind of crap you don't want. So, you can usually, you know, th- th- these are just normal everyday things. And when you've got that, you know, you won't maybe not want to take your, your, your tarot deck with you, for example, because you've got, "You know what? I'm going to ask. If I need to know anything, I'll ask, and I'll be shown a sign anyway." It's having that trust in yourself, because the same way the trust, you know, you're reading, you're reading your cards, you're reading them, you know, you know your meanings, you've got your narratives. But how's that applying, you know, in, into your daily in that way? So, you can actually read...

Laylla: How does it relate?

Jane: Yes. So, it's about kind of seeing things, being open to seeing things in a different lens, you know?

Chelle: And it's trusting. It's building that trust. We get asked a lot by our listeners, "How do I know if this is a sign?" or "How do I know if it's just my imagination?" or "just my overly neurospicy brain?" How do I differentiate that? And we try to tell them that it's more experience. You have to write these things down. You have to pay attention. Do you get that feeling? And if you do, pay attention to it. I I love how you said it's very subtle. It's very quiet sometimes. And a good example, Chelle has some things going on, and uh I was just at my desk. I'm doing some editing on the podcast. I've got Chelle's voice in my ear in my headphones, and all of a sudden, I got a full-body feeling. I just got chills in this full-body feeling. And I immediately texted her because I I have built up this trust with my intuition. I immediately texted her. I said, "Chelle, something just happened. You are going to get really good news by the end of the week. What happened, Chelle?"

Chelle: It was like 4 hours later, and I was like, "Oh my god, guess what happened!"

Laylla: Exactly. And and it's because I I have learned to trust that. In the past, when I was younger, I would maybe have ignored that because I would have been like, "Oh, that's nothing." And then later, when it happened, I'd be like, "Darn it, why didn't I say something in the moment when I had that feeling? I I should have trusted myself." So, I started writing it down instead of telling the person. I'm like, "Well, I'm a little embarrassed to tell them, so I'm just going to write them down." And then I would go back, and I would check, and I'd be like, "Oh, wow. You're doing pretty good when you have this particular type of feeling." And so, it's building that trust, I think. And is there anything that you have done in the past or or that you would recommend to people to help them to build that trust or or to know the difference between—

Chelle: Or create that confidence within themselves.

Jane: I think for me, I would I mean, I used to ask, "Do I need to take a jacket today with me? Is it going to rain?" because in Ireland, it rains every day, most days. "But am I going to be needing to take a jacket, or am I all right?" You know, and and every single time, I kind of I'd have my jacket in front of me, and then I'd be like, "No jacket." And and I'd let myself get them kind of chills as to which one it was, and I and so I went with it, and it didn't rain. You know, or or it has rained, and I and I've took it with me. So, they're all like little, little things. I mean, when it comes to growing in your intuition and things like that, it all kind of comes round to being unblocked within yourself, isn't it? So, it's all about you being clear of your mind, being clear in yourself, because the more relaxed you are in your own head and the less you're stressing or or, you know, questioning things, the more easy stuff is coming in. And sometimes, you wonder when people ask, "You know, well, how do I know it wasn't just me, for example?" Well, the conversation or or the way in which something's spoken, for me, it's not words I would use. You know, it's not the way that I would talk, and it comes in very different forms and stuff. So, it's kind of like that's how I would understand it because I would be looking, "Is this something that I would normally say? Is this something within a a realm of what I would say, or is this something that's coming out with?" because then you can easily differentiate like, "I don't even have That's not the way I would say that," kind of thing. Again, it's kind of like when you're a kid, I think, it's about kind of being childlike in the way that you have your eyes with regards to the world and kind of that openness with it. And and I think growing with your intuition is kind of like just we're taught our entire lives that we have to trust, and we have to trust our family. We, you know, we trust our friends. We have trust in in the police, or we have trust in our government. We have trust in God. We have trust in everyone.

Chelle: We forget to have trust in ourselves.

Jane: Yes, we're not really shown or taught taught that, are we, really, as a, you know, having that. And I think that's something that we have to learn is that to have that trust in ourselves. So, I think that kind of thing comes along as well when people tend to have more trust in themselves when they've had experiences where they've been able to assert themselves, you know, to know something's for them or not for them, when they've been able to kind of move through, and they're not really kind of, um, triggered in themselves, are comfortable enough to be able to speak within themselves that way. And I think that's a big part of it.

Laylla: I absolutely loved your website. I am someone who I am constantly learning. Learning is one of my favorite things in the whole world. And you have so many classes, including one on Lenormand. I went to the site, worlddivination.com, and we'll put links to all your things. The first thing that pops up is a video talking about a free course in understanding Lenormand. And Chelle just got a deck.

Chelle: I just got a deck because I, although I have about roughly about 275 tarot decks—

Laylla: She's has an adecktion.

Chelle: I have an adecktion. This is a form that I've never really looked into, dove into, kind of learned a lot about, and I feel like it is similar enough to tarot. So, I actually I don't think I have Oh, I do have it right here.

Laylla: Of course you do.

Chelle: Of course I do. I have everything right here. It is the Healing Light Lenormand, and this is There was something about the box and the picture that that just pulled me because, like I said, normally I stick to tarot, but there was something about this that I was like, "I need that. I need that."

Laylla: The cool thing, though, is that your website, you have so many different classes on different things. So, could you tell us a little bit about the World Divination Association and what you offer there?

Jane: So, the World Divination Association was founded by Toni Savory, and she's actually the lady that teaches Lenormand. Toni is, I would say, um, actually masterful. I've never known anybody can read a tableau like Toni and the way that she teaches it and, um, and everything. It's Lenormand, for me, although I can read it, I don't really enjoy reading Lenormand as such. But that's only because Lenormand doesn't seem to like me so much. So, because I'm an Aries, and I can get I can get a bit more fire up, when I've got when I've got any system that's been a little bit bitchy with me, I'm like, "No, I'm sorry. I'm not going to waste my time with that. So, I'd rather I'd rather speak with, you know, something that's that's wanting of my time then in that regard." Um, so I have a bit I have a I love it, but it loves to hate me. So, it's a it's a love-hate. Toni teaches Lenormand, and and she's got so many courses and so many free courses. Honestly, she's exceptional. And not just that, um, she teaches Lenormand all over the world, really. And with that, there's some of the courses such as the pendulum course, I think we've got flower psychometry. Those are all ones that are being taught by Toni, too. Yeah, Toni's big on energy the same way as I am, and she loves doing energy work, healing, anything energetical, too.

Laylla: Jane, are you saying we need to have your partner on the podcast at some point, too, because she sounds fascinating?

Jane: You need to have Toni on. She is big into, um, quantum physics. So, she actually really likes to try and bring in that kind of, you know, the scientific and the spirituality. She's, you know, constantly on a quest to kind of integrate the two and marry them. She will advocate the I think the line of she likes to break her own brain with the concepts that are so big they just shatter everything in her head.

Laylla: I love her already.

Jane: So, yes, uh, she she's the lady for you if you want to learn Lenormand or anything like that. And even, um, have you heard of the Kipper carden? The Kipper cards, they're also a German system like Lenormand, Bavarian, and she she's phenomenal with those as well. She's got a book out on—

Laylla: Do you see what you did to Chelle, Jane? You you just gave her a whole another type of cards to go get. This is not good.

Chelle: I'm interested.

Jane: You've got so many different different systems and, um, and so many ways. And you've got likes of, I think, if I was These aren't taught by me, all. I teach some of these, but I think we teach like tarot, runes, ogham. We teach Belline oracle. We teach Lenormand, Kipper, Gypsy, Gypsy Witch, Le Petit Albert, um, we also teach La Grande Lenormand.

Laylla: Wow, you have a little bit of everything on there.

Jane: Every every kind of system of divination, um, we have teachers from all across the world, um, teaching them.

Laylla: Now, you, Jane, you have, uh, you teach a lot of the sigil classes and the ogham classes, and you you have two books out, correct?

Jane: Yes, so I teach, um, I teach sigil, well, bind, how to create binds. Got a course with that. I I teach, um, runes, and I run you through runes endorsement if you're doing that, um, ogham and ogham endorsement. I pop up time to time in the tarot realms. You'll see me fundamentally. I use tarot more when I'm doing readings, private readings for people, um, and I I use my runes, um, all of the times, really, including reading for people, too. But, yeah, I like to teach the the the alphabet systems and natural magic and things, too, because I think the ways in which everything connects is really important. Spirituality and mediumship, we teach that, me and Toni together, and I think, yeah, there's a lot of courses out there if you wanted to take any of mine.

Chelle: Now, tell us about this new Ogham book and card set.

Jane: So, Ogham, um, I'm so I'm so blessed, really. That's all I can say. Wiser Books actually, um, took my proposal, my manuscript, and I'd created an Ogham deck, and the deck Ogham is a language, well, it's not a language, it's an alphabet that forms the earliest Irish language. So, you're talking how languages evolve over the years. When you're looking with regards to England, you know, you've got the way that the alphabet was written was a lot different, the lettering within it. So, it just evolved into what we have today now, modern English variant. Ogham's much the same way in that. It's the earliest ancient Irish alphabet, and it's used for divination. And it's one that is It's such a beautiful system because it feels like a grandfather. So, it actually Ogham approaches for divination, for me, is a different approach entirely because you're the center of your universe. Nobody else but you because you're only the the only one that's going to experience your life, this universe that's around you, through your eyes. So, for that reason, you are the center of your universe. So, you got to understand yourself and then understand everything else in the world because you can understand how everything impacts. Now, with that alphabet, it's split into four families. So, there's 20 cards, and each of them there's four sets of five. And you'll notice that with Ogham, I look at them as dance steps. So, first off, the first aicme, you know, the slide to the right, and the second aicme, the slide to the left, and then you've got the diagonal of the third aicme, and then you've got horizontal for the fourth. So—

Laylla: Hold on. Sorry, Jane. I got to I have to interrupt you real quick because you said slide to the left and slide to the right. Where's the hands on your hips and pull your knees in tight part? Because—

Jane: That's how I That's how I find it. That's how I got to grips because at that point, when, you know, when you think of you're learning, what's the best way to learn is to have something, you know. I think it's a lot different having a letter and being able to attribute something. And Ogham, with their stroke count and so with their lines, you know, it goes from one to five on one side, one to five on the other. So, you've got 20 that look very similar because they're all lines. You're like, "Well, what is this, and where is this?" So, instead of it being one of 20, I put it like a dance moves. Then it's one of five, and automatically that's less intimidating to kind of get your head around, isn't it? And you can understand the aicme, which means family. Each one has its own kind of like energy, its own flow running within it. So, you understand when you're learning, then you could be looking and being saying, "Right, so the, you know, that second aicme, it's all a kind of like it's misfortune, it's negative situations, or the ones I've brought on myself, or are the truly ones that's come around me." And then, yeah, you know, I'm going to stand up and have the courage of my conviction, and even if people don't like me or what I've got to say or what it is I'm doing, that's all right. And actually, you know, I'm right and wrongs. I'm sorting this. I'm getting anything done that's needing to be doing, and I'm going to come up with ways in which I can do it that not just me is going to like, but everybody around me. And having an appreciation for everything that and realize that you shouldn't be distracted by shiny things. That's that second aicme. So, then you can kind of then you can narrow it down and start learning, you know, all of the Each family's got its own different theme, and each kind of individual one's got its own energy. So, you can see the way in which things flow. And then you also have an additional five cards. Now, those five cards, they're called forfeda, which literally means after trees or additional letters. So, they came after the original Ogham alphabet. So, for that reason, I don't use them when I'm reading, only if I'm doing like looking at them as a cosmological, so looking as a spread placements where I'm putting things and moving through from that. So, it's kind of you can understand everything from this placement spreads in there, different things you can use and utilize. So, from smaller spreads to bigger spreads, you can actually do I've talked about casting and how to cast and the things to do with that. It's a divination system that's really profound because the fundamental change it brings, first and foremost, isn't to everything around you, but it's to you, yourself, and your perception of everything around you. And it'll it actually, whereas runes, for me, would give you the telling-off, like, you know, and be quite strict with that, Ogham is strict, but it's more kind of gentle in the ways in which it tells you. So, you kind of I look at it more as sitting on your granddad's knee, you know, and him being like, "Well, you know—"

Chelle: You brought this on yourself.

Jane: Exactly, but you know what to be doing, you know, and still in that. And with with it as well, it's you've got your kind of upright and reversals for most systems. But with Ogham, they're the universally light and dark within them because everything is both. We are all light and dark. Everything is made up of. So, it it's a system that actually has that integrated within the meanings so that you can see the ways in which they interact with each other. Actually, you'll see and understand the ways in which like it'll merge. Maybe there's gray areas, or maybe it'll be more lighter. You know, you can actually really allow yourself to be open to journeying through anything that you're experiencing, really, to get a really profound knowledge from it. Sorry, I've rambled there.

Laylla: Makes it makes a lot of sense.

Chelle: Laylla, I'm still stuck on the fact, and and I saw your reaction at the time, and I am now forever going to look at the Ogham as the Time Warp because we're just going to jump to the left, and then we're going to jump to the right. Yeah, so I'm forever going to look at it as the Time Warp, I think.

Laylla: The way you're explaining it to me, Jane, what I'm hearing is that the Futhark runes are cranky Odin, the mean grandpa, and the Ogham system is the kindly grandpa who wants to tell you stories and give you some wisdom and help you know yourself better. Is that is that kind of what you're saying?

Jane: It is, yes. But if you understand that with regards to the kind of the Celtic spirituality, everything's in cycles, and in those cycles, you know, you have reincarnation, and it's just one infinite kind of cycle, sequence of cycles, each life. So, first and foremost, when you kind of see it in that aspect, it's kind of Ogham guides you through the cycles, all the cycles of your life, to guide you into that best place for that next cycle and to help you understand all the cycles of everything around. So, to me, it's kind of like you'd be going down the lines of like Fibonacci in that way, you know, the way in which actually that endless endless sequence, that perfect—

Laylla: Now you're speaking my language.

Jane: That's why Ogham's very special in that way, um, because it it's it's so insightful. But again, like anything, the insight it brings is only dependent upon how open you are to yourself and to improvement, and and it's something that for me, it's I'll I'll strive for my entire life for.

Laylla: Beautiful.

Chelle: I think everybody will.

Laylla: Well, now, this book, Ogham: Divining in the Celtic Way, which has all 25 cards and a guidebook, that's coming out in March?

Jane: It is, yes. So, it's well, it's actually it's coming out in March in the USA. If you're in the UK, uh, it's April. So, it's a whole month later. So, you but, yes, it's coming out a month, uh, in a month's time.

Laylla: Month earlier in the United States. All right. Well, we'll—

Jane: Yes, and it has got, like I say, it's got a 192-page guidebook. Um, it's got about 35,000 words in there on how to read Ogham, how to actually as well meditate on Ogham, so how to meditate and actually get to know its essence and energies, how to manifest with it, and how to create your own, uh, set of Ogham fues if you were looking to make your own set. Because I truly believe if you're making your own set, no matter what wood that it would be that you used, it's already got that power within it because your openness to learn and your pouring into something that's going to give back.

Chelle: I totally agree, and there was a point, this was years ago, we did a coven craft project. I don't know if you remember this, Laylla, and we made runes. We made our own runes out of little clay pieces. We made the little clay. We made little discs, carved in each rune, let them harden. And I think that those are better than any set I have ever bought. They might not be as pretty. They might not be as fancy. But energetically, it's because I made them. They feel better than the gorgeous ones that I've bought. So, it's not about shiny and pretty. It's about that connection you have with it.

Jane: Yes, and honestly, I hope that you get all the wisdom in the universe when you start your journey. It's going to blow your socks off. I can't wait.

Chelle: I can't wait.

Laylla: I'm super excited about this book and deck because the way you described, it feels very natural to me. I love its connection with trees and with the earth and with the cycles. It feels very connected, very energetically connected to all things. You mentioned Fibonacci, and I'm I'm so there.

Chelle: You're so old.

Laylla: I'm sold. I I want in on this spiral. Let's go check this out.

Jane: It just kind of pulls you, and I think once once you get that, it's it's something that you'll you'll shift. You'll shift your You'll shift the way that you see things or even approach things, you know, always.

Chelle: I'm so glad that we actually were able to get together and connect and have this conversation because I've been struggling with these. And the main reason why is because everything I've read, all the instruction, all the guidebooks, they focus on each one having to be on this specific wood. And I thought, "Oh my god, this is not on rowan wood. It's not going to work for me." But you've kind of made me realize it isn't about the wood.

Jane: Like I say, when you think about the trees, think about Ogham as itself. So, an alphabet, And you're talking at that time period, you know, you've got the Druids, um, who would, you know, help and give wisdom in kingdoms and, and keep law and order and pass a lot of things on. But a lot of the ways in which this, you know, they had to, they spoke in poems, they spoke in song, and they spoke in code, and they spoke in secret. And one of the elements with regards to Ogham is, you know, you could look at it in some regards as almost like a tally system of the universe. So everything's attributed. So the associations with the trees were just so that they could attribute other things to be able to make it easier to remember. Which is why I write the, the associations of the trees are all written down, but the emphasis for me is on the letter and its energy itself because no matter where in the world you are, you'll understand that energy, you know, of loss. You'll understand, you know, what it means to kind of see where you might be getting pulled in ways that you might not necessarily want to, you know, seeing what you, what motivates you to be doing things, like why you act the way you act, or why you think the way you think, and then understanding from that why others are motivated to do things. You know, that's loss really, and that, that is that intuition, is that insight, is tapping into that, and it's actually, but doing it in a balanced way, rather than then being coerced into acting in ways that really aren't you. So we all get dragged into doing stuff, going to a party you don't want to go to, agreeing to, you know, take on overtime when you don't want to. That's really, you know, it's about understanding why you're being asked to do that then. Why is it that you can't say no within that, and, and really allowing yourself to move. So, yeah, the trees are important, they're important associations, but like I say, they're associations that are just that, an association to, isn't exactly that letter itself.

Chelle: Well, I am so excited to dive into the book, into the cards, and I am ready to just pounce on the World Divination Association website. Thank you, Jane, so much.

Jane: Thank you very much. It's been an absolute pleasure. Thank you.

Laylla: Thank you so very much. We will put links to both of your books, your upcoming book and your sigil book as well, and links to the World Divination Association so that people can check out those classes. I know that'll be pretty popular. And you know, I'm probably going to be emailing you, see if we can get Tony's information so we can get him on.

Chelle: We're going to have to talk to Tony. Yeah. Yeah.

Jane: Not a problem.

Laylla: Well, again, thank you, Jane, so much. It has been an absolute pleasure having you on the podcast.

Chelle: Thank you, Jane. Thank you for taking the time for us today.

Jane: Thank you.

Chelle: All right, Laylla, I really need to get over to this World Divination Association website right now because apparently, I've got a whole ton of classes that I need to register for.

Laylla: Seriously, and I put aside my Celtic Tree Oracle that has the Ogham on it because I didn't really get it. But, you know, the way Jane explained it made it so much more accessible.

Chelle: It was a little weird at first when I, when I got the fues, but now I'm like, okay, let me get out my sticks. Let's see. I, I just need to think of it in, in terms of tarot, I think, and, and off we go. So next time I see you, I'll be doing an Ogham reading for you.

Laylla: Yeah, you know, I really loved the one that you pulled for my birthday, which kind of got this whole ball rolling. So I'm very excited. So again, thank you so much to Jane for coming on and talking about different types of divination.

Chelle: And if you want more information about the Ogham or about divination in general, check out Jane's organization, the World Divination Association, because we're going there. So.

Laylla: We'll put links to that and to Jane's books in the show notes. And we hope you are all enjoying your chilly February. Spring is right around the corner. So if you are in the northern United States and it's cold out there, why not break out your favorite form of divination, snuggle up, and see what your yesterday was like.

Chelle: All right, Laylla, I got to go because I need to pull some cards, pull some sticks, and maybe get out a pendulum.

Laylla: And I'm just going to head out and keep it witchy.
