Welcome to Back on the Broomstick, a modern witches spoken word grimoire, where two witchy friends from way back [music] are reconnecting to their pagan roots after a long period of mundanity. We're re-walking the path of the wise and trying out all the latest spells, rituals, and magical theory in today's witchcraft [music] and pagan practices. So, grab your wand and your incense, your cauldron and your [music] crystals, and join us as we get back on the broomstick. Hi and welcome to Back on the Broomstick. I'm Laylla and on this episode we're talking about Beltane, the next notch on the Wheel of the Year. We'll give you a little background on this fire festival, as well as tell you some modern interpretations. We'll also give you some tips and ideas on how to carry this spring energy through the between the spokes time until the holiday of Beltane. And I'm Shell and you know, this is probably my most favorite time of year. I guess that's the best way to describe it. I feel like this is the time when magic is blooming, when when magic is in the air and Beltane is rooted in Gaelic tradition, traditionally celebrated on May 1st. It is a fire festival, a Celtic fire festival and it is a ritual time of year for purity and protection and good fortune. >> All right, I hear you talking about purity and protection and good fortune and that is not what I remember we used to celebrate. Well, you know, fire purifying, not what was happening in the frolicking area. Yeah, so okay. I didn't realize we were talking about the frolicking. We're talking about all of it. I mean, you're celebrating the life force, however you want to take that and what x-rated rabbit hole you want to go down. Let's not talk about x-rated and rabbit holes in the same podcast. Different episode. >> Different episode. Okay. And on the flip side of all that life, growth, and creation, in the southern hemisphere they're celebrating Samhain this time of year. You know, as we are well aware, the veil is very thin at Beltane as it is at Samhain. I think people forget that. I'm so glad you brought that up because the veil is thin the whole world over, not just in the southern hemisphere where it's Samhain. You know, when I when I think of the veil being thin for Samhain versus the veil being thin for Beltane, I kind of look at it as when the veil is thin for for Samhain, that's when your ancestors are looking to do some serious conversations. You know, that's when granny sits you down on your knee and says, "Look here, okay? You're messing [ __ ] up. Get back on track." Or is that As as she gives you a butterscotch candy. That's [laughter] right. But, Beltane, I kind of see that ancestor connection more in a lively, I don't want to say kind of fun, like big birthday party kind of way, but kind of in that injection of life and it's it's almost like the ancestors come and give you that >> different flavor, right? Yeah, it's more like when they come for a birthday party versus when they are trying to reprimand you with candy involved. It was always one of my favorite holidays mostly because that meant our community would >> First time we could camp. Yes, and our community would get outside. It was the first outdoor ritual of the season and that was always huge. It was always such a big festival and everybody came to Beltane and it was almost like a a party atmosphere. It was a celebration of life and renewal. But, it also had this like family reunion type vibe to it cuz like you just said, people a lot of people would come that maybe wouldn't normally come to to indoor rituals or if they had other plans throughout the summer time, you know, Beltane was kind of almost like the family reunion one. You know what I mean? Yeah, and I think the reason for that gets into the history of Beltane. Beltane itself is a what's called a cross quarter holiday and all that really means is it's between holidays that are based on celestial events. It's like right in between them. >> It's big spokes in the wheel. Yeah, it's a spoke that's between the other spokes, I guess. Is It's just between [laughter] celestial events. So, it's a cross quarter holiday and this one is big about fire. Fire, fire, fire, fire. So, our little firebug Shell loves this holiday and is exciting. It's joyful. It's life. Sex and reproduction is a big part of it. When our community used to celebrate, we would separate into men's and women's mysteries and the reason for that gets into the historic basis of Beltane itself. One of the things and then we've participated in this many times is jumping the fire. You know, you you can jump the fire for a multitude of reasons, you know, maybe those reasons have changed over time. Back hundreds of years ago they were jumping that fire for fertility and longevity and marriage. Now people do it for various types of manifesting. For luck, for purification, for cleansing. And that is like you said, it's very similar to what ancient peoples used to do. They would go through some villages would put out all the fires and then they would light two central fires and people would drive their cattle or their animals between those two fires and then they themselves would walk through or jump the fires for that purification to make sure that they were fertile and had lots of baby cows so that they didn't starve to death through the coming year. It's important to remember that some of these older traditions have kind of transcended time, whereas some of them or their meanings have fallen by the wayside. It was more about reproduction so that they didn't die. You know, they needed the crops to flourish and the animals to breed. They needed the success of their farms. Sure. >> [laughter] >> They needed that success in order to survive. And and like you said, Shell, things now have changed. Even back when we would celebrate Beltane, the focus was on duality. The focus was on the god and the goddess coming together and conceiving a child. And that was where a lot of the ritual and the energy focused on was that energy of male and female creating something new, creating life. Very very Wiccan based, yeah. Yeah, and that's what you know, that's what was reflected in the season. You know, you have the seeds cracking and growing. You have animals having babies. And so that was easy to see in the season itself. But, now as we're growing out of that Wiccan base, as we're learning more about this practice, this way of being, we know that there's so much more to the season of spring than just male, female, and reproduction. And fertility isn't just having babies either. This this goes back to my most favorite conversation when I was working at the witchy store in Salem, having the crystal dick in your wallet. You want a fertile wallet. You want your finances to be fertile and plentiful. It doesn't necessarily mean babies or or baby cows or baby sheep or baby chickens or baby humans. It can just mean fertility in all its form. Yes. You can have a fertile mind. You can have a fertile field to grow your ideas in. There's so many different interpretations that it means abundance. It means having what you need. And that duality duality of energies can also mean so many different things. Beltane can be about needing more than just yourself. In order to succeed, you need more than just ideas. You need the ideas and the drive. In order to do well at school, you need to do more than just show up to class. You know, you need to also study. There's more than one energy that are needed to create things and to succeed. And so Beltane is really about those energies coming together in whatever form that takes to create something new. That takes the form of a fire under your ass. Exactly right. Yes, this fire festival is all about it's that continuation of spring energy, right? Spring we're all excited to clean our houses and and get going. Beltane hopefully keeps that momentum >> Now we're lighting the fire. Yeah, keeps that fire burning so that you can keep that energy going and make it even bigger, make it even better. Multiply that. So, fertility and growth and abundance is is like you said, it's about so much more than just babies. It can be about success in your work, success in your life, bringing that abundance into your personal life. But, I could see how that was kind of a focus at one point in society. It's just we've evolved from that. And thinking about it, when we've been talking in our current community about this upcoming Beltane, our first Beltane, and what we want it to look like, I I've been reflecting a lot on our old community and the idea of the men's mysteries and the women's mysteries. So, we had mysteries in our former community and it started out as two mysteries, the feminine and the masculine. And then as time went on, a third mystery came about, the fool's mystery. Mysteries were kind of sacred knowledge, I guess. And in when you split off to two groups, you're kind of deciding which group you want to go partake in that sacred knowledge and that sacred ritual of. So, you're going to pick your group and So, you have no knowledge of the other one. Is that where the mystery part comes in? Yeah. Um so, I generally went to the women's mysteries, the feminine mysteries. So, I have no frame of reference of what went on in the other mysteries. When the other mysteries were going on, we were not privy to what was happening. Okay, so it was literally a mystery. It was literally a mystery. What happened in the women's mysteries is we would do some sort of female energy or female deity related ritual. Something to kind of connect with that feminine divine. And then part of that with having a maypole as part of our main ritual, part of those mysteries for the women's mysteries was digging the hole that the maypole went in. Well, that sounds pretty symbolic. Physical representation of the hole. >> [laughter] >> The hole. Okay. All right. Sure. I get it. So, what I know of the men's mysteries is that they do a similar ritual connecting with the masculine energy, the masculine divine. And then they are charged with fetching the pole. They go cut down a maypole and then bring that to where the female energy group is, the the women's mysteries group is and put their pole in the hole. >> [laughter] >> Back to X-rated. Now, I can speak to the men's mysteries because I have gone to the men's mysteries. And it followed very similar pattern to what we called the women's mysteries. And basically the idea, just like you said, Shell, is that we would split off into two groups to go celebrate one aspect of these two different energies that we are honoring for Beltane. And the men's mysteries, as it used to be called, because as we'll talk about later, we've changed that, was active. The idea was outward self, action, doing things, literally chopping down a tree with an axe, which I did kind of badly, but I enjoyed doing it, which was the point. >> I'm surprised you did that badly cuz you really wield an axe pretty well. Thank you. I appreciate that so much. I've seen it. That's so sweet. It's a good compliment. Maybe I've gotten better, but so that was literally the point of it. And I guess kind of one of the other things I'm emphasizing is in our community, they were called men's or women's mysteries, but you could go to whatever mystery you felt called to. Now, I did mention that over time there did evolve a third mystery group called the fools mysteries. So, Laylla, tell us a little bit about that because again, that wasn't one of the groups I participated in. The fools mystery came about in later years of the community because we recognized the fact that even though these mysteries, these two groups were very inclusive and you could go wherever you chose and no one really gave a [ __ ] which one you chose if you chose a different one each year, we still felt that there was something missing, that there was something more that could be added to these energies. And the idea of the fool, the the advisor to the king and queen, you know, the the jester of old who was so much more wise than they seemed, and this became the fools mysteries. It became a place for children to go who weren't ready yet to choose the men's or the women's mysteries, but it also became a space for people who felt called to no gender or to both genders or any other aspect. If they felt that they didn't want to go to specifically a men's or women's mysteries, there was the fools mysteries to take that place. And for a little while, that worked really, really well, but that too has kind of evolved. So, now after decades and evolution of people in in place and space, there is now what is it? Back to two mysteries again? And those mysteries are tree and earth, which I really love that concept. So, kind of give us a little explanation about the tree and the earth concept. The idea of the tree mysteries is action, outward, the energy and drive that you need to get up and do things, like swing an axe for the first time and and get better at that. That type of energy. And the earth mysteries are inner knowledge, receptive, dark wisdom, magic, holding space. And we've kind of taken the whole idea of gender and reproduction out of it. It's more about the energies of the season as opposed to breaking it down just to sexual identity. And I really love that because it also it it projects more of what the mysteries are about. You know, the tree being that outward kind of worldly knowledge and the earth being that inner core wisdom. At one time, it meant a lot for women to be included in it, I guess. It felt powerful. It felt very like I was accepted. >> That's evolved now. Yeah, it took a minute and then we realized that there were still other people that were excluded, that was still limiting. At first it felt freeing and then you look around and you go like, oh, no, it's only a little freeing. There's more. We can do more, right? We can expand this even bigger. >> Right, right. >> And I think that's what we've done. We've come a long way as as a as a community and I think as a a shared mind because I think you got to know better to do better. And I think over time, um that's that's what a lot of groups have done, you know, they do better because they know better. Exactly. And hopefully everybody does that. You know, as we learn and as we grow, you're like, yay, I'm included. Let's help more people be included. But that's really where we want to go with this. And even our old community, when I first came back a few years ago, had changed a little bit. And these mysteries for Beltane now were called action mysteries and receptive mysteries. And I thought that was very beautiful. And in our community, we've kind of come up with the idea of tree mysteries and earth mysteries. And the tree mysteries are that action, that outward energy, the drive, the push. And the earth mysteries are the inner mysteries, mysteries of the mind, mysteries of magic, deep knowing, holding space. >> Going within. Exactly. And I love that change that brings so much more meaning and depth and magic to it, I think. All right. So, we've talked a lot about what we've done and what Beltane is. What are some ways we can live this practice? What are some things that we can do in our lives as we're moving towards Beltane to kind of bring that energy of growth and more energies than just ourselves, braiding energies together to enact our will, to create something new? Being a fire festival, I always go right to that concept, the concept of fire and working with fire, um working with that fire energy, working with things that I have a passion for. We were talking before we got on, uh before we started recording, about scrying. And this I think is a great time of year to scry. And part of that has to do with again, people forgetting about that veil being so thin. That liminal space is so close right now. Right. With the fire scrying, you know, you can combine that with meditating with the fire, taking a few moments each day, light a candle, look into it, stare into it, gaze into it, look into that flame. If meditating is the way that gets you there, meditate. If just staring into the nothingness of a flame gets you there, stare into it. But seek out if there is some sort of message, um because again, I think this is a great time to to utilize fire as a tool for connectedness. Candles are one of those easily accessible things. You can have a lot of candles around your house and people just might think it, you know, that's your vibe, that's your aesthetic. >> Cuz it's storm season and people lose power. Exactly. There's another excuse. So, candles are one of those things that you can have around no matter what. Plus, you know, they're so nice. And take that minute. We we've talked before about all sorts of different candle meditations and spells you can do, but when you're doing your 15 witchy minutes, like Shell said, just put that in front of you and gaze into the candle. All you have to do is soften your eyes, just soften your gaze and just look at that, maybe with a little cross-eyed gaze, and just try and relax your brain, relax your eyes, relax your face. Watching a flickering flame is one of those universal ways that I think people find it very easy to slip into a an alpha meditative state. Absolutely. Yeah, absolutely. Fire does something to you. Yeah, especially this time of year as we're moving through this between the spokes time to Beltane as we're getting more towards the Beltane side of it. Fire's going to be very powerful and noticeable. Maybe pull your swords suit of tarot and see what fire has to or if you're a wands person, pull your wands. >> Why did you even say that? I would have just stuck with fire and swords. I'm trying to be inclusive, so I will even include people that think wands are fire cuz they're witches, too. >> [laughter] >> So, pull your suit of tarot that represents fire and gaze on that or hold a card that represents what you're interested in for the day while you do your scrying in that candle. You don't have to do it for very long, just a minute or two, and get your information. Now, I know I've said this before, Shell. I, personally, when I do fire scrying, I get really deep. It's one of those things that gets me super deep in my own head. I get super deep into alpha, and so I have a hard time recording what I say. I will usually put my phone down in record mode, or if I have someone there that's with me, I'll have them write it down because I do not remember what I scry. So, I try to tell myself beforehand what I'm looking for. Like say, I I want information about this job I just applied for, and I will say what I see out loud. Okay. I have to set that intention before I get into that meditative state. What do you do to make sure that you remember? I temporarily have easy recall. >> Ooh, like a dream, right? >> I do need to write it down right after. So, right when I'm done, I have to write it all down cuz in 10 minutes, then I don't know what the hell just happened. But, I have enough recall that I can retain it until I'm done to write it down. And as it's almost like as I write it down, it goes right out of my brain. And that'll take practice to find out what kind of scrying person you are. Everyone's different on how you recall those things. Yeah, I I I recall it similar to dreams, you know? If I If I write down a dream as the minute I wake up in the morning, I can get it. But, if I wait 10 minutes, it's gone. So, it's it's it's all about what works for you. Yeah, I wonder if that's similar for everyone. I'm curious now. Maybe that's you're in a light dream state because I'm not very good at recalling my dreams. I mean, for an instant, when I first wake up, I might recall some of it, but I'm very bad at recalling my dreams. So, I wonder if it's a similar thing. Like if you're bad at recalling your dreams, maybe you won't be able to recall here as well. I'm not sure, but I wonder if it's similar. >> Interesting. That's That's an interesting concept to kind of delve into more rabbit hole to go down. Because Another time. >> [laughter] >> Yeah. Another day Another episode. I do have a similar reaction to both scenarios, and that's if I do it immediately, I can capture it. Well, there you go. It's a sample size of two. We have similar reaction to scrying as we do to dream recall. So, therefore, we are perfectly right with our That's scientifically proven. 100%. >> There you go. 100%. But, no, I'm curious to see if our listeners have something similar. What are some things that you do to kind of get you into the Beltane spirit? Well, funny you should ask because we did it together today. And that is walking around outside in the mud and in the sunshine, feeling that sunlight and feeling the warmth of the sun as it gets stronger is a big part of my practice this time of year. I love the sun. Even when I lived in California and it wanted to kill me, I still loved it. It was an abusive relationship, but being in the sun is one of the things that I like to do. And And walking outside, even as muddy as it gets, especially here, and paying attention to the land, just listening to the land and being in that space, taking time to sit against a tree, lean against a tree, and and literally talk to it for a minute, as silly as that sounds, it works, and it feels very calming and soothing. The smells were what what I was noticing when we were walking today, the Cow fields from across the way or better ones? Better ones. More like, you know, the smell of new fresh buds on the trees, the smell of leaves that are just bursting out of the plants, that smell of brand new green grass. All of the senses. Getting all of my senses involved. The bright sun, the beautiful colors, the green and the flowers that are coming out everywhere. >> chirping. The smells, like you said, the cool air, all of it. It sounds very simple, but being in nature and paying close attention to everything, something that you can see, >> smell, taste, hear, all of it is magical. That's very powerful to me, just connecting in that way. That's the magic that sometimes people let pass them by without noticing. I think sometimes it's easy to forget that that is magic. Good point. And I fall into that trap, too. I like things. I like doing the spells. I like doing all the big things. I like seeing big magic happen and work. But, sometimes the magic is putting on mud boots, hiking it out into the yard, and walking around the property, and trying to identify trees. And the calm and the the energized serenity, I guess, that I felt after that walk, after communing with that space and talking to the trees a little bit, I felt better than I did all day. That's a good reminder that that magic is there, and it's simple, and it's accessible, and it's the magic of connection. It's right there. You're welcome, Laylla. >> [laughter] >> It was your idea to get us to go out in the woods. Thank you. The reason we went out in the woods, actually, thank you for the segue. The reason we went out in the woods is because we have been talking about Beltane, and one of the things that came up was the concept of the nine sacred woods. You need to ignite your sacred bonfire of Beltane with the nine sacred woods. There's a problem with this though, Laylla. Okay. There is. What are the nine sacred woods? Like concept-wise. We We'll list them in a second, but what's the concept of the nine sacred woods? >> I kind of look at it as it comes down to magic of the place. Except for this concept was was originated in the British Isles. So, the the nine woods that are supposed to be these sacred magical woods from magic of place is from that place that we all are not at. Yes, the idea was these nine trees, these nine sacred woods were part of the Celtic tree calendar, and they were all considered to have magical properties and have magical spirits. And so, burning them in a sacred way meant that that would release the energy for your location. Meant that that would release the energy for your spell, for your ritual. They would add their power to your working. >> like adding like a spice to something, like giving it a little extra zest, a little extra boost. I would say maybe more meat than spice, but yeah. There's even in the Wiccan Reed, they reference the the nine sacred woods, and they say, "Nine woods in the cauldron go. Burn them fast and burn them slow." And then they read them all. It's like, "Birch in the fire goes to represent what the lady knows, etc., etc." Now, like you said, Shell, many of these trees in the nine sacred woods of the Celtic calendar aren't from the United States. They are native to the British Isles, to which place we are not located in. >> That's right. And while I love the concept of these sacred trees, these powerful spirits of land that will lend their energy to your bonfire or to your Beltane working. I mean, that sounds powerful and badass, right? It really kind of does, not going to lie. So, I like it, but it's not here. It's not this place. So, we've been talking about it, And tell them what we thought. We love trees, and the Northeast United States is freaking full of trees. >> Got a lot of trees up here. Got a lot of trees. So, we have come up with Back on the Broomsticks' nine sacred woods of the Northeast United States. And I'm pretty proud of the list, actually. You know, that actually has a ring to it. Right? So, this is our version of the nine sacred woods based on our geographical location. These are nine sacred woods to essentially, I'd say, the Northeast in general. And those nine sacred woods are, Laylla, give them the list. These woods together, all nine together. Nine is a sacred number, 3 * 3, 3 3 3 3 3 is is a feminine number. It's a number of power in many different systems. And so, by combining these woods together, they are greater than the sum of their parts, and each one has its own meaning, and burned together represents this place, the power of this land. Basically, you're summoning the Northeast USA, the spirit of the Northeast USA through the power of these trees. The collective energy. Yeah. Yeah. So, the trees that we've come up with are nine trees, like Shell said, that we really enjoy. We're going to read the trees off to you. We'll give you the list, and on our website, we'll have the magical meaning for each of the nine trees. So, the list is apple, sugar maple, willow, paper birch, black oak, cherry, white pine, spruce, and red cedar. Those are pretty badass trees, just saying. >> pretty pretty awesome, and I I was very excited, and it felt right when we came up with this list. And to be honest, I'm also excited. I hope because the United States is so large, we are a vast country. There's a lot of different areas here that where these nine trees also will not grow. You know, I'm looking at you, Nevada. Pretty sure you don't have all these trees there. Or Alaska, I don't know. Maybe you do. I'm not sure, but I'm very curious what you and your state, or you and your area of the United States, would consider your nine sacred trees. Or you in your country, wherever you're from, if the traditional nine sacred woods aren't part of your ecosystem, you know, what would your nine sacred trees be? And, you know, there will be some crossover, I'm sure, but there's also, you know, I can think of southern states and in in Hawaii, palm tree would be on their list, but not on our list. But, they may still have a type of pine tree. So, there is going to be some overlap, I feel, but take a deep dive into what is taking up your land, your space. What are your nine sacred trees for your space? And learning about the trees that are local to your area is part of magic of place. It's part of connecting you to the energy that's all around you. And these trees are waking up. This is the time of year, you know, especially like sugar maple. I I've seen the sugar shacks going down my road. I mean, it I think it's ending now, but >> It's the end of it, but you're close. You're close. They're waking up. They've woken up. The leaves are coming out, the buds, the flowers. So, pay attention to those trees. They have energy to lend to you. You can take a little branch. You could take a dropped branch. We were looking at the white pine pine cones, and I was thinking, you know, I tend to gather things like that. But, you could get some of those and throw them in a little late spring bonfire. Add them to an incense. Add them to your altar. >> Or a simmer pot. >> To bring that energy of that wood and place to your space. One other thing I wanted to mention is this is a time when my grandma used to call it whispering with the bees, because this is when a lot of the bees, wasps, hornet type creatures are waking up and coming out of the brush, and they're buzzing around. It's getting to be where it's warm enough that you're starting to see them. And it was called whispering to the bees. What have they learned over the winter, and what have you learned over the winter? See, I learned whispering to the bees was when somebody passed away, you would whisper to the bees and tell them about that. One of the other folk things I know about whispering to the bees that I tried to teach my children, but they were too scared of bees to learn it, was that bees have very sensitive hearing. And so, if you whisper to them when they're flying around, they won't sting you, because they appreciate that you're not being so loud and hurting their ears. So, if you if you whisper something like, you know, "Hey bee, please don't sting me. Go away." But, whispering it really works with bees. There's something to be said with with bee communication, I feel, and I think there's a lot of tradition behind that. We'll table that for another episode. I'm going to take a tiny tangent. You started it. I'm going to take a tiny tangent with it, because this is essentially the flip side of Samhain. We're coming up on Beltane and Samhain right now, depending on where you are in the world. We were just saying that the veil is very thin, and we're talking about the veil between our world and the afterlife, our world and the magical realm. And bees are one of those creatures that communicates across that barrier. They can travel freely across that barrier, and sometimes they are considered messengers to the dead. And so, whispering to them this time of year to wake them up makes sense, and it still fits with whispering to them to talk to the dead, because the dead are closer this time of year. Bees are waking up this time of year. I'm just saying, I think there's connections there. As long as you whisper to them, that's the important thing. >> That's right. Whisper to the bees, please. They really like it. So, another thing that you can do, as always, we're going to throw tarot into this. >> Surprise! And we have come up with a spread based on these nine sacred woods, and based on the Beltane bale fire. This is a 10-card spread, and I don't want folks to get overwhelmed by the 10 cards, but it's definitely going to give you a fire vibe, but it's going to give you some in-depth things to ignite and light your fire for. There are nine cards that correspond to the nine different trees, but this spread is meant to be read in tableau format, basically as a whole. You don't have to read each individual position and assign a meaning to it. The idea is to read groups of cards together. >> Put it together more like a story. And we will put this up on social media and the website, but we're going to go through it like this. You start with laying two cards upright on the bottom, left and then right. And then, you'll cross those. Each card gets crossed with another card. So, you'll have two plus signs, basically. This is your wood. This is your kindling at the bottom of the fire. Then, you'll deal on the left-hand side, going up towards a pyramid, like the left-hand side of a pyramid, you're going to deal two cards from bottom to top, so the fifth and sixth card. And then, on the right, going up the right-hand side of the pyramid, the seventh and eighth card. And then, the ninth card is the very top point of that pyramid. And these are the flames going up on your your bale fire. Then, in the center of your little flame, you are going to have your 10th card, which will be your significator, the card that represents you. And this is read again more in chunks. So, yes, each position has a tree associated with it, and we'll list those on social media and the website, but you don't have to I mean, you could. If you really want to get into the nitty-gritty, you can read each position and the tree and correspond that together. But, these are meant to be read together in chunks and then read as a whole. So, you read the logs at the base of the fire as the foundation. This is the what's fueling your current season. This is what's fueling this late spring season. The conditions, the resources, the things that are already in place. What is your foundation? And the cards that cross them are cards that are working against that, or ideas, maybe you, maybe outside forces that are working against you, or or that are crossing that foundation. The two cards going up the left and the two cards going up the right of the triangle are the igniters. These are the energies that are the movement. This is the energy coming in that will help you move forward. This is the momentum. These are the events or the people that are fueling your fire. >> Yeah, exactly. And then, at the very top, the pinnacle, the ninth card, that is the outcome, the culmination, what all this fuel and fire is working towards this season. And then, the last card? Is going to be the significator that is going to represent you, the querent of the reading, and that is going to be the card that kind of, in my opinion, kind of sets off the whole reading. Yeah, that's the heart of the fire. That's the phoenix rising. That's the very core of the whole thing. Of where you're at at the moment and how you're going to get there to the end. This kind of came out of our talks about these nine sacred woods and bale fires and using the fuel from spring, using that deadwood left over from winter, the things that you've cleared away in spring to fuel what you're creating for late spring, for early summer. What are you growing? What are you creating? What are you striving for? What are you combining all these energies together to make, to be, to have? And the idea to assign a wood to each position is kind of in the spirit of, you know, like you said, the Wiccan Rede talks about burning the nine sacred woods. What are our nine sacred woods in tarot form to give us the message to move forward? So, that's where we assigned each card position then to a wood of the nine woods. So, after you've read these chunks, these pieces, then look at the whole thing from above. Look at it as a bonfire with you at the center. What does it look like? What story is it telling you? Weave all these threads together as a whole, as one picture. >> And as with a flame, you know, kind of start at that base, start at the bottom, and work your way up to the peak. And while this isn't really a let's do this 10-card spread every single day between now and Beltane, it's one that can be part of your witchy practice, and bring that in. Do something big like this to really see where you're going. This can give you a good idea of all the different threads that are weaving together for your goal, for whatever you're asking for with this reading. So, we've got some divination tips. We've got some history going on. Where Beltane started, where it's come. Some scrying, some meditation. Anything else to prepare for Beltane that you can think of? How about a spell? Ooh! I love closing things out with a spell. I really like this spell, because it's perfect for ramping up to Beltane season, because it kind of looks like a maypole, and it's not magic, which makes it very utilitarian. I I love some good not magic. >> Right? Now, I'm a crafty witch, you're a crafty witch. We have various odds and ends of thread and ribbon and string, right? Yarn, macrame, all of it. Exactly. [laughter] So, this uses some thread, string, ribbon, whatever you have around, and a twig or a stick that you find outside. That's all you need. So, what you're going to do is you're going to take your stick, tie three. You can take more if you if you know how to fancy braid or fancy knot, go ahead and take as many strings as your heart desires. But, if you only know how to regular braid, just take three strands of your ribbon. Or, you could take three strands of your own hair, you know, or with permission >> [clears throat] >> cough cough with permission someone else's hair. That, [laughter] too. With permission. Wink wink, nudge nudge. So, tie your three strands of ribbon to the top of your miniature maypole. It doesn't have to be very big. 3 in long, plenty big enough. Whatever stick you choose, so say you choose a little twig that's 3 in long, whatever ribbon you get, you're going to want to be roughly double to triple the size of the braid. Tie them to the top. Now, you have a cute little maypole. You have a little wand you can whack people with it. No, please don't whack people with it. >> [laughter] >> Got a cute little wand. Sit with that wand. Hold it in your hands. Put it between your palms. Push all that energy into your palms while you're thinking of what you want to have. This could be a replacement for a freezer spell. You could knot somebody up in this and get them out of your life. You could have this be an energy spell where you knot up power and energy so that when you're feeling a little laggy or a little down, you could pull this out and snap it and get some of that energy back. You could have it be a love charm where you knot in little love sayings or romantic ideas about the person that you're interested in and carry that around. Whatever magic you want these knots to hold, you think about that. Push that into your hands and hold this little maypole between your hands. Push all that energy in there. Then, once you've raised that energy and pushed enough of it in, take your maypole and start braiding the ribbon around the maypole. And every few braids, you're going to stop and make a knot. And then continue braiding until you get to the bottom of the pole, and you're going to knot it off. Every time you make a knot, either make a chant or have a saying, just state your intention, whatever it is you want. Say you're looking for promotion at work, and so you're you're doing this so that people will think well of you and want to give you the promotion. Every time you tie that knot, push that energy of what your desired outcome is into that knot. And then continue the braid. Keep thinking it. Knot again, and push that energy into the knot. Knot magic works because knots bind up your energy into that. They hold on to it. So, that power will stay there. Which is another good reason why it works great as a different kind of freezer spell. And then once you're done, just thank it for being part of your working, and you can either keep it on your altar if it's something that you want to keep close to you. Keep it in a pocket. Keep it in your bag. Or, if it's a freezer replacement spell, you can bury it in the earth. You could burn it in a fire. Or, you can throw it in the garbage. That makes me want to go make little maypoles. Right? Wouldn't that be fun? Who are you banishing, Shell? Different episode. >> [laughter] >> All right. Well, on that note, I think Shell and I are going to go forage in the woods for some twigs and acorns and whatever witchy wild things we can find. So, thank you so much for listening to this episode. Please like, subscribe, [music] give us some stars, give us some reviews. Do all the things, people. Do all the things. Send us an email. Check out our Facebook [music] page, Back on the Broomstick Discussion Group. They're a fabulous group of witches. Check out our Reddit board, Back on the Broomstick. [music] And in the next couple of weeks, we are going to have a new PO box to unveil [music] to you guys. So, hold on to that mail cuz pretty soon we're going to give you a brand new address to send it to. While you're desperately waiting [music] to send us your postcards, be wise, be wicked, and keep it witchy, folks.