Welcome to Back on the Broomstick, a modern witch's spoken word grimoire, where two witchy friends from way back are reconnecting to their pagan roots after a long period of mundanity. We're rewalking the path of the wise and trying out all the latest spells, rituals, and magical theory in today's witchcraft and pagan practices. So grab your wand and your incense, your cauldron and your crystals, and join us as we get back on the broomstick.

Laylla: Hi, and welcome to Back on the Broomstick. I'm Laylla, and on this episode, we're talking haunted objects, possessed dolls, cursed museums, and we're questioning whether energy can actually cling to physical things. We'll be talking about Zak Bagans' Haunted Museum and items like the Dybbuk Box, Peggy the Doll, and theories on energy like the Stone Tape Theory, servitors, tulpas, psychic residue, and we're going to decide whether these items can actually hold this energy, how does it happen, does it really happen, and is this museum real or fake? And I'm Chelle, and I'll tell you, I am so intrigued by this conversation because we're going to be talking about a lot of great stuff, a lot of great energy conversations, but I want to start out with what I found most fascinating when we were chatting about this and how this whole story came about with your trip and everything is, I have been a fan of Zak Bagans since day one. I remember in the early 2000s when Ghost Hunters came out.

Laylla: Hey witches, Future Laylla here. Ghost Hunters, the television show, premiered on October 6, 2004 on Syfy. It starred Jason Hawes and Grant Wilson. Zak Bagans' show was called Ghost Adventures, and it premiered on October 17, 2008 on the Travel Channel before being moved to the Discovery Channel. Future Laylla out.

Chelle: I had watched them season after season after season, not so much recently, but I was a big fan in the beginning. And Laylla, tell us your experience with Zak Bagans prior to this.

Laylla: Um, absolutely zero. Okay, that's not exactly true. I have some knowledge of Zak Bagans through you. We've talked about him before, and we have talked about Ghost Hunters before. This is not something that I have ever watched. I've never seen his show. So, when I had the opportunity to go to Las Vegas recently, and I was looking up haunted places, and I did go to a few other haunted locations, but everyone said I should check out Zak Bagans' Haunted Museum, and Chelle was ecstatic.

Chelle: Absolutely, because, you know, he was one of the innovators in bringing ghost hunting and paranormal hunting to mainstream TV. It was a time when we were kind of craving that kind of entertainment on the old television box, and he was one of the innovators in kind of making that mainstream television.

Laylla: I know there's ghost hunting shows on TV, and I think I've caught one or two. I couldn't tell you which ones they were. And in our research for The Stoned Witches Hour, of course, I have run up against the names of these shows and some of their research and their episodes. But I think I've come across the name Zak Bagans mainly mostly on YouTube. I think he gets possessed a lot or something. That was really my extent of knowledge of him and his ghost hunting, was that he tended to get possessed a lot or something.

Chelle: Well, you know, and you can say this about any of these shows, they get access to haunted locations and haunted places that the normal average person like you or I may not get access to.

Laylla: And I'm so jealous, I have to say. I am so jealous.

Chelle: I know. And when I heard not too terribly long ago Zak Bagans was able to obtain pretty much all of the Warrens' possessions, which included every single haunted item the Warrens had collected their whole professional careers, and that's a lot of stuff. So when you said you had the opportunity to go, I was ecstatic for you because I get the gist of what the collection was. I didn't know all the bits and pieces and the specific items, but I knew that what he had had some meat to it.

Laylla: And I was very excited about it, more for the items themselves. I didn't really know much about Zak Bagans and could not care less. But the items there, Jack Kevorkian's actual van, there are items there from serial killers, the Dybbuk Box that we've talked about before, Peggy the Doll that we have talked about before, items that are supposedly haunted from the Titanic. There are so many things here that I really wanted to see and to see if I felt any energy myself from them. You know, is this a museum of cool things that actually are active or energetic in some way, or is it really just a bunch of bullshit? I was very much looking forward to a chance to see it for myself. And in my research, I did find a lot of people who went into it very similar to that as I would, with a skeptic's view and also with less either no knowledge of Zak Bagans or a less than favorable view of Zak Bagans. And pretty much every single one of those people that I saw, after they came back out, said how great the museum was. So I was very intrigued.

Chelle: Now, it's not just about Zak Bagans and the weird shit he has bought and collected over time, because that is all awesome in and of itself. But I think the real issue at hand here and the real conversation is energy attachment and how, what, when, where, why can energy be attached to things, objects? We talk about spirit of place, we talk about ghosts and hauntings, but what about objects? So you literally went to a museum that was supposedly full of haunted objects. So I do want to talk about some objects, but I also want to talk about how can that happen? How can a mirror that Joe Blow Schmo looked into then have some imprinted something on it? So I want to talk about not just how cool this museum was and the stuff you saw, but how does this happen? Is this real? What's the deal with objects being haunted?

Laylla: So we're going to dig into that. We're going to first start with spirits of place, because I want to mention that the Haunted Museum is supposedly in a haunted location. This is a house, it looks like an actual home. It's a 13,000 square foot mansion that was built in 1938. And they say that it was already haunted when they purchased it. It's called the Wengert Mansion, and supposedly the former occupants of the home haunt it due to satanic rituals or rituals of a dark nature that took place in the '70s.

Chelle: Yeah, that's what they all say.

Laylla: That's right. You and I know that every single haunted location is home to satanic rituals or a portal, and they're always the most haunted, right?

Chelle: One or the other.

Laylla: Now, the reason I bring up spirits of place is because I don't feel like this location is any more haunted than anybody's home that was built before 1990.

Chelle: And you also have to figure, you know, this was in Nevada, built during a tumultuous time to be in the Wild Wild West. And if it wasn't haunted, I'd be like, well, that's weird.

Laylla: And people in the '70s, everybody was into interesting hippie stuff, occult things. I don't think this house is any more haunted than anyone's house in the United States. But I do feel that if you concentrate, like if you go to a house and you say, "I want this house to be haunted. I'm calling up the spirits of the land, any spirits that are here. I call to anyone who was ever troubled that lived in this home. I call to the spirits of anyone who died in or near this house." Of course that's going to stir something up. Throw a rock in a neighborhood and somebody's probably died near there. You're more than likely going to get in touch with a riled up spirit that's nearby. And people are doing this regularly at this house. They're asking them to show themselves. They're asking the spirits of this house and of this place to come up and out and interact with them. And I think in my belief, that will energize those spirits to be more active, to be more interested.

Chelle: And one thing I want to point out is, you know, I did back in the day spend a lot of time watching the various ghost hunting, paranormal-y type shows. And the one thing that Zak Bagans is 100% notorious for and totally gets a kick out of is he's a provoker. So not only are visitors and guests potentially riling things up, provoking things up, but he himself is a provoker. And I would assume not only with the items, but with the property itself.

Laylla: Again, this property, you know, may or may not have had some witches like you and I in the basement doing a ritual here or there. But I think any hauntings that people are feeling are the energies of the land, the energies of any land spirits, or the energies that were already there, the energies that were already there that are kind of just being provoked by the people coming around. So let's talk objects.

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: In this museum, when you first go into this museum, you enter into a room that's decorated with a bunch of clowns and dolls. The lighting is dim, it's red, it's muted. They definitely set the scene. They even have an oath, a giant oath on the wall. And before you go on the tour, you have to actually raise your hand and repeat it like an oath. And it says, "This building is known to contain ghosts, spirits, and cursed objects. By entering, you agree that management will not be liable for any actions by these unseen forces."

Chelle: Everybody needs a disclaimer, I guess.

Laylla: Right? It makes for a great atmosphere, but it's also psychologically setting the stage for you to see something. So I was fully ready for this all to be kind of hokey, especially because I knew from my research that they were going to heavily push the upgraded pass. This is not a cheap trip by any imagination. Your visit, just for the regular visit, is about 60 bucks roughly. If you want to upgrade to their RIP pass, you're going to pay another $30. You do get a lanyard and a t-shirt and access to extra rooms, but they push that shit, like no joke. They will push it continuously until the tour starts. And then they rub it in your face if you didn't get it. Since I was doing this for research purposes, I got the RIP pass. You are not allowed to film or record past that room.

Chelle: Boo.

Laylla: They will rent you, for 50 bucks, a Polaroid camera with 10 Polaroids in it. So you get 10.

Chelle: Ouch. That hurts.

Laylla: You kind of wanted to. I almost regret it, but then I think about how much money I spent, and I stop regretting it. But it's a hook. Two people, two people in our group of 13 people took it, but that's it. So, the first room you walk into, filled with dolls, and they do talk about a haunted doll. I can't remember her name. I don't think she was that haunted. But in this room, they also have some objects from Anton LaVey, including goblets that he used during ritual. They have a handwritten letter from him. They have ritual items from him in a glass case. These are actually historic, cool artifacts that do have energy from them. I wouldn't say they're haunted.

Chelle: I really hope that one day some of my altar ritual artifacts are in a museum somewhere.

Laylla: Yeah, and these items have historical value, and they were cool. That was pretty interesting. Of course, you know, as we file into this very dark, smoky room, you can't really see much, and the whole thing is designed for you to not see much, but I wish it was. There's a lot to see here. Let me just start out by saying we're going to talk about a lot of different objects that have energy. And I wish they had let me stay in the rooms more because like these objects by Anton LaVey were not the only items that have real value in this room. But let's talk a little bit about energetic items because these are a perfect example. These goblets, these chalices from Anton LaVey, the first Satanist here, I guess you could say, founder of the Church of Satan, they had energy. You could feel the energy emanating from them. But I would say that's just energy that something gets through general use.

Chelle: Absolutely. We all emanate energy, good, bad, indifferent, whether you're cooking something in the kitchen or doing a sewing craft project, you are putting energy into all the things that you do each and every day, and this is no different.

Laylla: And you mentioned you wish some of your ritual items would be in a museum like this. And there's a few reasons why your ritual items might be more likely than regular items to actually hold onto energy and end up in a museum like Zak Bagans' Haunted Museum. Those items would hold more energy. First of all, we tend to use things like metals and crystals that naturally hold onto energy. I mean, they've found that the matrixes in crystals are energy receptors, and we can do all sorts of different things with that. They use gold to conduct energy. So there's reasons why we're drawn to these types of tools in our craft. They tend to hold that energy. And repeated use puts that same type of energy in them. So if you're constantly holding these chalices and calling in the energies of deity, they're going to kind of hold onto some of that energy over time. Doesn't make them haunted, but it does give them an aura and energy that other people can read.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: Now, being able to touch something and feel that energy is typically called psychometry. And we'll get into some terms and different types of energy transference and reading a little later in the episode. So part of the problem with this whole museum is it's roughly a two to three-hour tour, basically. I was in the very first group. I got there right when they opened. But part of the problem is the length of the tour. It's dark, it's smoky, and even though it's about two and a half hours, they rush you through every room. So there's a lot packed into each room, and there's a lot of hokey mixed in with the good, and you don't get a lot of chance to read the captions of the good. But we're going to talk about some of the bigger items and whether they have energy or not and how we feel they got that energy. So one of the next things that we saw is the Devil's Rocking Chair.

Chelle: Now, we saw a video about this before you left on your trip, and I really, really, really wanted you to touch it because I feel that that is an—and obviously I was not at the museum with you, sadly—but I feel like that could very well be one of their legitimate items. When you approached this, were you—were you given enough time? Side note, that was what annoyed me about your story when you came back, was that you were rushed through this. I wish they gave you more time. Okay. So did you even get a chance to kind of get close to this? Did you get an opportunity to touch it, and what did you feel, if anything?

Laylla: Okay. All of these rooms, when you would go in, the guide would talk a little bit. There would often be a video from Zak Bagans himself discussing the item and some of the different things that happened, including things that had happened to people on the tours. When we got to the Devil's Rocking Chair, we got the backstory, which is basically this chair is part of the real-life story that inspired The Conjuring movie. There's a child, David Glatzel, that was possessed, and Ed and Lorraine Warren were called in to investigate this possession. This rocking chair was in the room with David during these possessions and during the investigation and the exorcism, and it was seen to rock violently back and forth while this was going on. Now, this child, 11-year-old child, was supposedly possessed by the devil himself and claimed he could see a beast sitting in the rocking chair, and it would then start rocking on its own violently. Now, after the exorcism and after the demon had been released from this child, people would still claim to see this rocking chair move. And someone connected to this—I believe it was his older sister's husband—touched the chair, then claimed he was possessed and murdered his landlord.

Chelle: Ugh.

Laylla: And actually had a case where he claimed that the devil made him do it because he touched the chair.

Chelle: And he won?

Laylla: Uh, no. No, he did not. The judge did not believe in the possession, threw it out, and he was convicted of the murder, but he only served about four years of his sentence. Now, the chair has holy oil on it from Ed Warren during this exorcism. They would fling oil on this chair, and it's considered extremely bad luck to touch it. People have reported having bad back—other problems. I think even Post Malone touched the chair. Was it that one, or was it something else that Post Malone touched?

Laylla: Hey witches, Future Laylla here. It was not the Devil's Chair that caused Post Malone to have bad luck. It was actually the Dybbuk Box. During an After Hours visit with Zak Bagans, they removed the Dybbuk Box from its protective case and actually touched it. Subsequently, Post Malone had such a bad streak of luck, including an emergency plane landing, a car crash, and a home burglary, that he said he would never go back again. Future Laylla out.

Laylla: So we did get a chance, because we were RIP members, we did get a chance to go up close to the chair. It's behind a panel in the wall. They raise this panel, and there's the chair in this little alcove in the wall. And if you're an RIP member, you get to go right up to it, and you're told not to touch it. But there was nothing stopping you from touching it. I leaned in real close. My breath may possibly have touched the bottom of the chair, and that freaked me out enough. Now, oh, this is going to be bad. I didn't really get a lot of feeling from the chair. I just—

Chelle: It is what it is, man. It is what it is.

Laylla: Now, what I did get was I was nervous about it because I—the video that we saw showed a regular news reporter being taken to the chair and asked to touch it, and he started to get back pain, which apparently a lot of people who touch this chair apparently get back pain. And that was a little freaky. But again, a lot of these things in the museum are set up for you to be very much influenced. If you're someone who is easily put into an alpha state or easily gets into a meditative state, this is designed to mildly hypnotize you as you go through the rooms. They're pushing this whole, "It's creepy, it's creepy, something's going to happen, something's going to happen to you."

Chelle: There's a psychological aspect to their show.

Laylla: Exactly. So please keep that in mind. Now, that being said, there's a lot of really cool shit here. There's a lot of things that actually do have active energy. And I do think that that rocking chair has some type of energy attached to it. I don't know if it was a demon or not. But I think that gets back to us talking about the different ways that energy can get transferred to an item. Like you said, just constant association with that, right? People constantly thinking this item has this particular quality can kind of give that quality to it.

Chelle: Well, and also, you know, we happened to be at an event this last weekend together where someone brought out a walking stick that had been owned and used by an elderly woman for many, many, many years. And you could feel that elderly woman's spirit emanating from that stick. And it isn't for any other reason than that stick was almost a part of her being for a long time. It was an extension of her arm, a third leg. It was a part of who she was. And that stick still carries that energy of her with it. Same as when a family member passes away and you may obtain an object that belonged to them, a piece of jewelry or or what have you, whatever the case may be, and you kind of feel that loved one's spirit within that object just for the sole purpose that maybe it's something they wore all the time or something they used all the time, but it feels like it still has a piece of them with it.

Laylla: Being able to read that type of energy is called psychometry. And this is an idea that was proposed by a gentleman named Joseph Rodes Buchanan in the 1840s. His theory was that objects retain energy and impressions of things that happened around them, particularly emotions and experiences of the people who handled them. The idea was that, again, usually metals and crystals, precious stones, these types of materials could hold on to energy, and that emotions and even thoughts have energy that would transfer to those objects just by the act of wearing them. And so that's shown by that cane that you mentioned. Now, someone who knew that woman might have a mental attachment and might mentally say, "Oh, whenever I hold this cane, I remember my Nana, and I remember what she was like."

Chelle: I feel love and joy and comfort and nurturing.

Laylla: Now, if someone else who didn't know your Nana holds that cane and from the cane itself gets, "Oh, this person was called Nana, and she loved that, and she was such a joyful person. Even her her joints ached, but she was such a joyful, happy person you'd never know." That person was reading the energy of the object that Nana had imparted to it over a lifetime.

Chelle: Right. And I think that that kind of goes along with some of these objects that you were seeing. But I also do believe that there is the element of the egregore here. The next item, and I know I'm jumping ahead to your next item on you, but I'm I was really interested in you seeing the Kevorkian van. Uh-huh. We as a a society have now, all in our our collective minds, put a certain association with that van and what we think the emotions inside that van would be, should be, could be. And so it's almost like we have as a collective created what our thoughts are on that van and that energy of that van. You know what I'm saying?

Laylla: I'm glad you brought this up. This was a very moving exhibit. And this shows the range, I think, of Zak Bagans' collection. These are energetic items that aren't just haunted or have a mystical past. These are items that have actual history of energy transference for all sorts of different reasons. And I was very moved by this exhibit.

Chelle: Objects that have witnessed things.

Laylla: Yes. Now, Jack Kevorkian, Dr. Jack Kevorkian is also known as Dr. Death. He was an American pathologist, and he's a euthanasia proponent. He is someone who back in the '80s and '90s was a proponent of terminal patients' right to die. He said that physician-assisted suicide was a person's right and that dying is not a crime. And he has said that he assisted at least 130 people to peacefully end their lives on their own terms. Some of this was done in a Volkswagen van that he had, uh, it was paneled all in wood, and he had different tools set up in there, and he also had some music that he had composed for people to listen to as they chose to end their lives. Now, this van was sitting in the middle of a room, and they had that music playing. And what really struck me is that you could literally put your head inside this van and look up at the ceiling, the actual van, the actual wood with the actual music playing, that was the last moments for some of these people. It it was heavy, but it it wasn't bad. It was it was definitely very heavy energy. You could feel that energy. It was sad. It was hopeful. It was a lot. It was a lot.

Chelle: But also, it had a signature, an energy signature. So it has this energy signature. I look at I look at the Kevorkian van as a two-pronged thing. You have this energy signature from however many people spending their last moments there. That's the last thing they saw, the last thing they heard. That is going to absorb some sort of energy signature, absolutely. But then you've got the opposite prong of that collective idea that we all know because that was all, you know, that was all over the news. That was big headlines. And we all have collectively created an idea of what we thought that energy in that van was like. Yeah. Because, you know, the trial was through the news. You know, we saw and heard all of the bits and pieces that we may not have wanted to see and hear and created our own ideas as well as an actual energy signature.

Laylla: Yes, and you can't discount that in a lot of these exhibits. I do feel that people that that many tourists going through are going to impart their own energy. We've talked about that as far as Salem goes, that some of these places are very difficult to feel anything other than the millions of people who have walked through and kind of muddied that energy pool. So, yeah, you can't discount the fact that what other people have projected onto these things, that energy can stick as well. Right. In my personal belief, I feel that strong, sustained energy is really needed to imprint it. But this place literally has thousands of people every day, Chelle. Like, I was in the first group of 13. It took us almost 3 hours to go through. By the time we were done, there were so many other groups crisscrossing with us in this house. I could not believe how the guides kept us all straight because we were like in one room, out the other, crossing in the hallway. There are thousands of people every day putting their impressions on that.

Chelle: But that's also a lot of energy every day. That's a lot of energy, you know. That's a lot of people's imprinted impressions.

Laylla: Even though it's not intensive energy, it is sustained excessive energy all the time. That's a lot. It builds up. Even a little tiny bit, it just adds up over time, for sure. Now, I'm going to jump, and I'm going to jump to Peggy the Doll. And I am not disrespecting Peggy in any way, shape, or form because she had some definite weird energy there. But I'd like to continue our conversation on egregores, but even more specifically, servitors and tulpas and how that kind of energy can get into something specifically like a doll. So Peggy the Doll, we've talked a little bit about her in the past. Her history began around 2014. Paranormal investigator Jayne Harris in the UK was called by a woman who was experiencing nightmares, anxiety, illness, hallucinations, and really weird activity in her house after acquiring a doll that she called Peggy. The owner was convinced that Peggy the Doll was responsible for all of these negative things. She even contacted a priest to bless the house, and that made it all worse. She then contacted Jayne Harris, who speculates in haunted objects and particularly haunted dolls. After Harris got the doll, these strange things continued to happen wherever Peggy was, particularly physical sensations like migraines, chest pain, nausea, panic, emotional distress, not just by people who visited the doll in person, but by people who looked at images of the doll online. So, of course, when these reactions started happening to more and more people when they would view pictures of Peggy the Doll, her story exploded. And that's when Zak Bagans acquired her. Peggy the Doll is one of those where if you disrespect her, she causes nausea, she causes blackouts, she causes all sorts of problems. You're not supposed to look her in the eye, and you're supposed to address her respectfully.

Chelle: Now, I have a problem with dolls, and, not going to be what you think, either. My problem with the doll thing is everybody thinks that every doll that's got a porcelain face or a weird eye is haunted, and that I do not believe. Do I believe there are haunted dolls? I do. Do I believe every doll you see in the bin at Goodwill is haunted? Absolutely not. No.

Laylla: A lot of that comes from just us being humans. There's a lot of psychological reasons why we think they're all haunted, is because they're creepy.

Chelle: Why people don't like clowns, same thing.

Laylla: Yeah. It's that whole uncanny valley thing, especially when the dolls look very human or almost human. There's that slight weirdness in our brain that goes, "That's not really human, but it looks like a human." And so it it starts to trigger scare things in our brain that we don't really understand, which is why I think sometimes we think dolls are haunted even when they're not. But Peggy has a history from her first owner, um, a paranormal investigator, Jayne Harris, was clued into this haunted doll and, uh, took possession of it. The former owner had severe illness, all sorts of things happened around Peggy, and so did Jayne. And she she wrote a book about it, Peggy the Doll: A Very Different Haunting. We've talked about it. Right, right. So Zak bought it because of this dark energy around the doll. And it's thought that if you disrespect her, that bad things will happen. Now, Peggy is behind glass, and she does have a box next to her, which a lot of the items in this house do, in this museum do. And the box is one of those, um, it scans the frequencies, and it might be static most of the time, sometimes words or phrases. Like a voice box type thing. Yeah, one of those. So so you can ask questions of Peggy, and she might answer. Now, my group was very quiet, sadly. And unfortunately, even though our tour guide said that Peggy had some beef with her that week, Peggy said nothing to any of our questions. But I love talking about her because, just like you said, most of these doll hauntings aren't really hauntings. And my personal theory is, I think a lot of these dolls that do have energy attached to them, I think most of them are what we might call a servitor.

Chelle: Oh, Laylla, tell us what a servitor is.

Laylla: Now, a servitor has a lot of use in common magical practice, and you might call it something different. But a servitor is anything that you have put energy into for a specific purpose. A lot of us use them for wards.

Chelle: That could even be a crystal or a jewelry pendant or a doll.

Laylla: Exactly. So it's something that you have poured your energy into to a specific purpose. So we're going to stick with the ward thing because it's easy. So say you have a stone, and it's it's heavy, it's strong, it looks like a barrier. And so you put those ideas, that type of energy into that stone. "You are a barrier. You are a protector. You are a warden of this place. You don't allow anything negative to come in." And you push that intention, you push that energy into that stone. You could go so far as to create a servitor of that stone where it holds that part of you, that energy, but that's all it does. It doesn't have a thought, it doesn't think, it just has a trigger and a response. "I protect. This energy protects." And so sometimes I think that, like, you know how strongly attached some kids can get to dolls or to toys?

Chelle: Uh, I had two of those children, yes.

Laylla: Especially when those children might be magically inclined or in a very good or very bad situation, that excess of emotion is magical energy. And if they're pushing that energy into this doll that they see as a certain thing, a friend, a protector, a guide, a guardian, they just might push enough energy into that doll to turn it into a servitor.

Chelle: I knew Blues Clues had its own personality. I blame my son.

Laylla: So I guess, for example, like, you ever heard of somebody or a ghost story where the doll would attack people? Yep. But it wouldn't attack the kid that it was attached to?

Chelle: Exactly, because it was the kid who fueled that energy. And, you know, you and I were talking about this before, and it's it can almost be like a a split personality thing. That child may have, you know, sadness and anger and hurt, and they're not projecting that out in their everyday, but they project that into this doll. And all of that sadness and anger and pent-up hurt, I mean, that that energy can fester and kind of turn into something. It would take a whole heck of a lot, but it's possible.

Laylla: So say you have a child that's in a very dark situation, and they put all this idea of hope or or need, wanting of a protector into this doll. They wish things were better in their life. They wish they had someone to take care of them. They wish that they had someone to protect them. And they push all those ideas into this doll. Then, we're going to Pollyanna this and say that that child gets into a loving situation. Things get better, and everything's good, and they give away their toys, and another child picks up that doll. But they're better. We're going to say they have a happy, wonderful life. But that doll now is still holding that energy, is still holding all that energy, is still a servitor that wants to protect a child. So again, servitors are just looking for a trigger, and then they have a response. So the trigger might be a kid picks up this toy at Goodwill, brings it home, has a bad day. They're mad at their dad. And they start crying to the doll about they're mad at their dad because their dad wouldn't let them play with butcher knives. And so now the doll has a trigger, right? And the reaction is bad things happen to the dad, right? He gets scratches on his back, or his tools start falling off of the shelf.

Chelle: Car breaks down.

Laylla: Car breaks down. Trigger, response, because it's a servitor. So now the doll is, quote, unquote, "haunted."

Chelle: But not really.

Laylla: But not really. That's my theory. That's my theory.

Chelle: So I do agree that a lot of these items are probably not necessarily haunted. It's more about they carry an energy signature from either being intentionally directed or being an energetic witness. Because that's the other thing, being an energetic witness. And I think that could potentially be the deal with the chair as well as the Kevorkian van. The Kevorkian van is 100% energetic witness. It's not that the van had any part in the passing of these people, but it was a witness. Just as if you or I as human beings were to witness the passing of someone in front of our own eyes, that would have a lasting impact on us. It's the same thing with the van. It had lasting impact. It just happened time after time after time after time. You know, you get beat in the head enough, your head starts to hurt. You know, you witness enough things and and energy, that is a permanent imprint, whether you are a person or an object, because even objects are energy, and energy absorbs energy.

Laylla: And we are going to talk about the stone tape theory that you touched on here, which is the idea that places and objects can hold that energy, particularly when it's big emotions. And then I want to talk about items that were witness to some horrors because there is the infamous murder room in Zak Bagans' museum, and and these two rooms were the most disturbing to me.

Chelle: Don't jump ahead, Laylla.

Laylla: So the stone tape theory. The stone tape theory is an idea that came from the 19th century from psychic researchers like Charles Babbage, Edmund Gurney, Eleanor Sidgwick. They talked about this idea that places had memory, that the very stones of a place, the stones in a building could hold on to intense emotions. Even the air itself might record words, phrases, and even images, much like a tape recorder or a video camera can record those images. Have you ever walked to a place and felt an energy there, like a heaviness? Oh, yeah. Yeah. So even people who don't claim to be sensitive can sometimes walk into a building and be like, "This place feels creepy," or or walk to a place and feel joy and then find out later that that's a place where weddings are held regularly. So even people who don't think that they're sensitive can feel these. So the idea is that places can hold energy. And the name the stone tape theory came from a 1972 film called The Stone Tape, where, uh, murders were taking place, and later the very stones of the walls would replay images of the murders, and it was scaring people that would walk through. This is now speculated to be the cause of a lot of hauntings that seem to be non-interactive, you know, the the haunting where a ghost walks down the hallway at 3:00 AM every single day.

Chelle: Right. It's like a tape recorder being, you know, where someone just hits play over and over and then rewind, play, rewind, play. Stone recordings.

Laylla: Exactly. They tend to happen a lot in places where there's limestone, where there's any type of quartz stone, or a lot of times where there's running water or water nearby. So some of this is speculated to be why objects will hold on to energy is this stone tape theory that that these energy waves that we record on a tape recorder or on a film can be recorded by other things and then played back and sensitive people will see or hear them more often.

Chelle: And that kind of goes along with the thought of how many times has you and I actually just had this exact conversation unrelated to this the other day, you know, these trees have seen a lot of things or these stones have seen a lot of things. This is exactly what we're talking about. That 400, 300 year old tree out in the field, that's seen some shit.

Laylla: Exactly.

Chelle: Same premise. Same premise.

Laylla: These scientists, these people, these investigators that were involved for the Society for Psychical Research talked about place memory storing these events, recording them, and trees are one of them. You know, groups of trees can sometimes do it. But, you know, just like you might have a radio outside and it might randomly pick up a little bit of a conversation, you know, you get from skip from another country or from A far off signal. Yeah. A far off signal. Sometimes you might randomly run into a signal that these places recorded. And the idea is that intense emotions in particular can record things, which is why you'll often find hauntings in places where violence happened, where murders happen, or you'll find hauntings in places where great joy happened, births of children, weddings, big celebrations. These intense emotions leave a vibration, leave a recording of a vibration on a place. They can also be recorded in things, much like some of these items that were in the murder room. Now, this is a room that has objects from notorious killers, Ted Bundy, Ed Gein, Charles Manson. He's got items that were used in horrific crimes.

Chelle: That had to be some weird energy signatures that you were feeling.

Laylla: It was awful. It was awful. The room is designed to look like jail cells and you get locked in, which first of all, you know, I hate anyway.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: The energy in this room was very overwhelming to me. Uh, there's artwork from these murderers that they had done. There's letters that they had written. There's artwork that Manson had done and then peed on, you know, bodily fluids.

Chelle: Didn't you say there was a pair of glasses that Ted Bundy looked through?

Laylla: Ted Bundy's glasses that he would wear to make him look like just a regular ordinary guy.

Chelle: Looking through his eyes.

Laylla: Yep. The murder kit from the trunk of his car is there. Clothes that these people were wearing in jail, Manson's hospital gown that he wore when he was put to death is there. They have ashes from these people.

Chelle: That's some heavy shit.

Laylla: It's heavy. Now, I went into this museum fully cleansed, uh, fully warded, and carrying a bag of stones and crystals and incense and Of course you were. You ain't dumb. This is the one room that made me pull it out. Instead of just having it in my pocket and in my bag, I literally pulled crystals out and held them in my hands. Thank you to the person who sent us the crystal dicks because I did have the hematite penis. What better for warding off bad energy than a a good hematite, right? But no, I had all my crystals out. It was hard. That room was definitely very, very difficult. And, um, there's another room with items from the Kansas City killer as well, including objects and pictures and, um, rough. Those were rough.

Chelle: That stuff carries weight to it because it was a it was a part of some horrific energy. Um, you know, just as joy can attach itself to things, horror can, too. And I mean, the murder kit, like, that's some heavy shit. Yeah. Like, that's some heavy shit. I mean, I would imagine that depending on on how sensitive you are, being exposed to some of those items can carry such a weight that they can make you physically ill.

Laylla: Richard Ramirez, the Night Stalker, objects are there. There's a lot of occult items that he was involved with. Samuel Little, who is probably one of the most prolific serial killers in United States history, has items there.

Chelle: Has stuff there?

Laylla: Yeah, it's just it's just a lot. It's a lot. And from a historical point of view, it's interesting. There's write-ups on all of it. But in particular, the Kansas City killers, I would say that room was probably the worst because there are images there that he took of his victims, and I didn't appreciate that. Oh, wow. Yeah. Oh, wow. As well as objects that he used to kill these people. Those Those had bad energy. I That was hard. Those rooms were hard for me.

Chelle: It sounds like there was a mix of things that were haunted, things that have had energy signatures, things that have experienced trauma and horror. Do you feel like there was anything that kind of had a mind of its own, for lack of a better term?

Laylla: Other than the actual clown doll that they used in the movie Poltergeist? No. No, that didn't. That one wasn't haunted at all, but that was a pretty cool object to see. I I That scared the shit out of me when I was a little kid, and to see that doll there, that was a cool piece of memorabilia. Um, there were definitely things there that were energetic. Most of it was, I would say, the objects that were witness to either horrific crimes or or even the peaceful death.

Chelle: But nothing where you felt an actual being or entity in, an actual haunting?

Laylla: I don't know. I'm not sure. There was a lot of things that felt very energetic. Peggy the Doll felt energetic. Even the Dybbuk Box, which I don't entirely believe in, I'm going to knock on wood, that I don't entirely believe in, felt very energetic. But those particular items, I'm not sure if the energy that I was feeling is from a spirit or a being in that item or if it was just people projecting it on there. I'm not sure. I would love I would love if we could be some of the chosen ones to be able to go there after hours and really spend time with them because, like I said, we were rushed through these rooms so quickly that you had to choose between looking at all the items, and there's a lot of historic, really cool stuff that has energetic signatures in each room, or listening to the stories from the tour guide and from the video from Zak Bagans, which gave a lot of background and a lot of great information. You didn't really have time to do both. You know, you just had a few minutes in each room.

Chelle: If we have any listeners in Vegas, if you could hook us up with an after hours tour at Zak Bagans' museum, we're all for it. Let us know.

Laylla: Oh, I would love to know. There's a lot there, and I would love more of a chance to explore because some of it felt weird, some of it felt hokey, but maybe not worth $90 in my mind. But there's a lot of really good museum quality stuff that has seen a lot of shit.

Chelle: Now, one thing I also wanted to to mention and chat about real quick is containers, which we love containers. But maybe specifically as it as it relates to dolls, I think that everything we've talked about, absolutely valid, absolutely an option, absolutely true. But another aspect is some of these things could have been utilized as a container, and a doll is a good example of that, mastering up the energy or energy that was out there, however it happens, being contained within an object. So, some of these things, maybe they weren't a witness, maybe they're not haunted, but they could be a container to an energetic an energetic field or an energetic presence, um, A spirit? A ghost? It could even be, yeah, a spirit. It could have a spirit in there. Um, but you also have to think of objects, uh, not only as imprinted, but as actual containers.

Laylla: There are a lot of spiritual traditions and there are a lot of ways to ask a spirit, ask an energy, ask a land spirit, a land energy, an ancestor, a dispossessed spirit to attach itself or to stay in a certain container. And like you said, dolls are an easy one because it's very easy for people to get emotional bonds or to anthropomorphize a doll. We tend to give them personalities and feel very attached to them, even when they're inanimate. So, that makes it very easy for someone To make it animate. Yeah, to in a ritualistic way to tie a spirit to it. That's not easy to do, nor is it simple. It's something that takes time and a lot of power.

Chelle: But it's not impossible.

Laylla: Not impossible, and has been done before. You know, there have been a lot of stories and folktales and documented research done by some of these people where it does seem like that has happened. Personally, I think that it takes a ton of energy to do and a ton of energy to sustain, so I don't think it's as common. But yeah, it could definitely happen. Can you tell us a little more about that?

Chelle: I agree about be- it being less common. I just wanted to point out that it is also a viable option out there. It's just not going to generally be the answer. It's probably always more so going to be a servitor because we have big wills as humans and we kind of project our thoughts and wills and energies out into the world. So, it being a servitor is probably always going to default as far as my answer, but there are options no matter how slim, and a container is one of them. Going back to the example I used that maybe you are I don't want to say split personality, but maybe there's a piece of you that's angry and hurt and just pissed off at the world, and you put all of that into something and create a sentient being.

Laylla: Ooh, that's getting into tulpa territory.

Chelle: Right? Or another option is, say, I'll go back to the child and doll theory again. Say you are a child and you have a friend, an imaginary friend, and you love your imaginary friend and you will and beg your imaginary friend to kind of collide with your little dolly figure and and go into that form. And, you know, children are more magical than we give them credit for, and probably I would I would put my money on a kid being able to do it more so than an adult. But maybe kind of get that, quote unquote, imaginary friend, that potential spirit being, to attach itself to an object to take form.

Laylla: Sometimes that imaginary friend is a spirit, like a land spirit or a ghost spirit that's there that they're talking to and that they somehow get to be in this object to hang out with them. But I also think the other thing you were talking about there is tulpas.

Chelle: I was kind of mixing the two. You're right.

Laylla: Well, not really, but but they're they're two they're two things. They're two ways that that can happen for sure that's definitely different than a servitor. So, a tulpa is like a servitor on steroids. Like, we talk about egregores, like you mentioned egregore egregores earlier, which is like a collective idea. Like, everybody's thought that this Dybbuk Box is a thing and has a curse makes the Dybbuk Box have a curse because everyone has put that energy on it so much, it has it. Right. A a servitor is one person's energy going into a thing that doesn't have a an idea or thought of its own. It just has one purpose. A tulpa is one person putting their energy into a thing, like you said, a kid who really wants their imaginary friend to be real. And they put so much energy and so much magical power and intention into the idea that this imaginary friend, who's not a spirit of any kind, be real, Takes on a life of its own. It takes on a life of its own, yeah, a limited life, a limited scope of reasoning and ability to affect things, but still kind of a life of its own. But again, that requires a very powerful, very precocious personality to be able to do that without realizing it.

Chelle: And then finally, that last option is, um, that spirit attachment, which is, again, same with the tulpas, few and far between, but not impossible.

Laylla: Have you ever seen on any of these shows someone like Zak ask a spirit that's haunting a place to go into something, like on purpose?

Chelle: Not that I recall. Um, I have seen them ask them, and and he is a big provoker of this, to go into them. But I don't recall off the top of my head about them asking it to go into an object.

Laylla: I think I've seen some sort of trend where people to help cleanse a place might ask a spirit or a haunting that's haunting an area to go into an object so that they could like almost Ghostbuster-like, I guess, is what I was saying. It sounds Ghostbusters. Like to a haunted doll or a crystal or whatever so that they can then take it away and help to release that spirit or that energy. So, that that is something I have heard of investigators doing, but I don't know if I've seen it like I'm not a huge fan of these shows, so I don't know.

Chelle: We could try it sometime. How about that challenge?

Laylla: That would be a lot of fun. So, that's definitely something that, you know, we as magical people can do on purpose. You can charge energies into a crystal, into metal, things like that tend to hold the energy better to a purpose or to a point. Hopefully, not to cause harm or to scare people, but, you know, maybe ward your space or protect you a little bit. These energies will hold on and and in some cases, kind of take on a life of their own a little bit.

Chelle: But it also may explain why when you come across an object or a location, why you may feel a certain way, and it could just be because of not that that object is haunted per se, but because of what that object has witnessed. So, would you say overall that the experience, we're not going to talk about the money part because you already talked about how you're not sure that's worth it, but do you think that this was a good experience overall and that you saw some worthy items, or do you think this was just some fluff and sunshine up your butt?

Laylla: Okay. You might be surprised because I I still would not say that I am a fan of Zak Bagans. He seems very over the top. But, yeah, the museum's I liked it. It had a lot. It had a lot of really good, really interesting items.

Chelle: I wish you weren't rushed through, though.

Laylla: Me too. Literally, it was almost 3 hours and it did not feel like it. I did not feel like it was that long. There was so much to see and so many interesting things. He has a legitimate cool collection. Very jealous. Wish I could see it just you and me in the dark. I mean, they do have flashlight tours, but again, that's really just a money grab. I want to be able to spend time.

Chelle: If anybody has a hookup, keep us in mind. Seriously.

Laylla: So, worth the $90, you're going to have to decide that for yourself. But there are definitely things there that have energetic signatures. There are definitely things there that have excellent, interesting, wild history. There's also a lot of cheesy things, but they still have interesting history.

Chelle: So, I think the moral of the story is, is if you can go to a museum that has a ton of paranormal type things, definitely worth a visit.

Laylla: And the other part of that is that energetic objects are something that a witch can not only sense, but create. These are items that can help you in your practice, whether you're storing energy to use at a later date, if you're charging something as a servitor to help protect your space, energetic items That's exactly what people do with the full moon water, you know, they're charging their full moon water and using it at a later date. That's exactly what you're doing, people. You're already doing it. Yeah, and and, you know, people do it enough by accident that these things end up in a paranormal museum that we as magical beings can do it on purpose to help enhance our lives. So, on that note, I hope you all get a chance to do something fun and magical this week.

Chelle: Go out and about and even if it's just a stone you pick up off the ground, see if you feel some energy in things. And, you know, if you've got something that maybe belonged to a family member that has passed on, meditate with that a minute and see if you feel that person or their energy signature in that. And, you know, just just kind of play around with what you're feeling in different things and it's it's like anything else, the more you practice, the better you get at it.

Laylla: Stay tuned for our episode next week when we talk about the upcoming blue moon at the end of the month, which also happens to be my bestie Chelle's birthday. So, don't forget our brand new P.O. Box is Back on the Broomstick, P.O. Box 21, Tioga, PA 16946, if you want to send Chelle a little birthday gift or send her some birthday wishes in the form of a postcard or a letter. In the meantime, be wise, be wicked,

Chelle: and keep it witchy.
