Laylla: Welcome to Back on the Broomstick, a modern witches' spoken word grimoire, where two witchy friends from way back are reconnecting to their pagan roots after a long period of mundanity. We're rewalking the path of the wise and trying out all the latest spells, rituals, and magical theory in today's witchcraft and pagan practices. So grab your wand and your incense, your cauldron and your crystals, and join us as we get back on the broomstick.

Laylla: Hi, and welcome to Back on the Broomstick. I'm Laylla, and this episode is all about the rare and the mysterious. We're talking about Blue Moons.

Chelle: And I'm Chelle, and I've got to say, I really like the concept of once in a blue moon this year, because this year, the Blue Moon is special to me.

Laylla: Blue Moons is a colloquially name that we have given to a Full Moon that happens twice in a calendar month. And this year, the Blue Moon happens to fall on 31st of May.

Chelle: The best day ever.

Laylla: The first was Beltane, which is a pretty cool day, I have to say. And the second day with the Full Moon, which is called the Blue Moon, happens to be on my bestie's birthday, May 31st this year.

Chelle: Once in a blue moon, that's right.

Laylla: Why do they have that saying? What does this once in a blue moon saying mean?

Chelle: Theoretically, once in a blue moon is supposed to mean, and just as the phrase kind of is said all the time, something that is rare, something that only happens once in a great while, something that's every so often. And a Blue Moon is exactly that. It is something that doesn't happen fairly often, but it does happen regularly.

Laylla: Blue Moons happen about every two and a half years, and there are two different types of Blue Moons. The first type is the traditional Blue Moon. Isn't there a song called Blue Moon from way back in the day?

Chelle: I was literally just thinking that song in my head.

Laylla: That's referring to what's called a seasonal Blue Moon. A seasonal Blue Moon is the third Full Moon in an astronomical season, so between the solstice and equinox, that has four Full Moons instead of the typical three. That's what it used to mean. What we commonly think of as a Blue Moon, which is the second Full Moon in a calendar month, that's a relatively recent, like very recent, development.

Chelle: Shockingly recent, actually.

Laylla: That definition, the one that we are all familiar with right now, because honestly, it's easier to remember than the weird one about the four in a season or something. Do you know, do you remember what date it is?

Chelle: It was 1980.

Laylla: Yeah, somebody published this by mistake in a magazine in 1980.

Chelle: That's like within our lifetime. My brother was born in 1980. I remember 1980. So, the idea of a Blue Moon being the second Full Moon in a calendar month is literally younger than Wicca itself.

Chelle: The Full Moon is every 29.5 days. So, I understand that there is a, there's a lot of superstitions around the Blue Moon, and there is all of the things that we've been hearing since 1980. But essentially, it's kind of a man-made thing, I think.

Laylla: It really is. This idea of a Blue Moon and it being special and having extra power and being extra powerful because there's two in a month, you're smushing two Full Moons into a month, so that makes it extra powerful. Well, you kind of said the magic number just a minute ago, Chelle, 29.5 days. Full Moons are going to happen like clockwork every 29.5 days. And the only reason why we have a so-called Blue Moon is because of a calendar that we created.

Chelle: Man-made.

Laylla: Much like New Year's Eve, which is an event that is also man-made. We arbitrarily picked this date to be New Year's Eve, and we celebrated it. We give it power because so many people love this date and revere this date and have certain ideas and feelings about this date. So, I guess since 1980, but prior to that, the other type of Blue Moon also still lent a rare, 13th moon in a year. It just was a slightly different time frame definition.

Chelle: So, I think that this is just an archetype that, that we have created in our minds. And people are like, "What do I do for Blue Moon magic? What do I do with Blue Moon energy?" My answer always is the same thing you'd do for the Full Moon, because that's exactly what it is.

Laylla: And I do feel that because so many people are giving thought that the idea of this Blue Moon makes it rare and special, I do feel that it has a lot of that energy. It gets that vibe. It gets that cachet. It gets that energetic boost, I think, from so many people believing that. So, yeah, I agree with you. This is just every 29.5 days, like freaking clockwork, we're going to get a Full Moon. This is just another Full Moon. But because so many people believe it's rare and special, and because we do believe our calendar, our calendar has become kind of a, a sigil in and of itself, right? It's a mathematical construct. It's regular, and, and people believe in it. So,

Chelle: This has become a superstition that we as the people follow.

Laylla: Yeah, so we, we the people have kind of empowered this belief. So, I don't necessarily buy into, I hear a lot of people going on about how this Blue Moon is chaos energy and, and wild fey energy and, and it's going to bring all this extra bonus. I don't know if I would go that far. But I do think it has rare and unusual and special energy, not just because my bestie is rare and unusual and special, but because, because I think we all believe that about Blue Moons. So, I do think that gives it an extra boost of power.

Chelle: Now, I do think that there is magic to be had doing things that have to do with intuition and, and manifestation. But those are the same things I could say about just any old generic Full Moon. But, you know, maybe there's a little extra oomph in these spells this time, or a little extra zest into what you're doing. But essentially, I think you're going to, your focal points are going to be exactly the same as a Full Moon, you know. What are you looking to get renewed and, and out with the old, in with the new, you know. What are you doing for a regular moon, you're doing it here, you're just giving it maybe a little extra leverage.

Laylla: A lot of witches, a lot of magical practitioners feel a very strong connection to the moon, particularly that Full Moon, that beautiful reflection of light. We all feel very strongly connected to that. So, I'm not surprised that we feel a strong connection to a bonus moon. We get an extra one, and it's a 13, right? We also have a lot of feelings around the number 13 as well. So, I think that we can draw power from those associations. We do a lot of sympathetic magic, a lot of like-for-like magic. So, if this moon is called a Blue Moon by millions of people, in, especially in the United States, we love our special moon, so we're calling this a Blue Moon, and we know that Blue Moons have that feminine intuitive power, that intuition, that divination power, and, so we can use these themes, right? The color blue is a wonderful thing to latch onto because that also goes well with intuition, uh, psychic awareness, emotional healing, which also goes along really well with Full Moon energy. So, I think we can kind of pull in some of these Blue Moon magic ideas and enhance the Full Moon magic ideas.

Chelle: You know, especially if you're, you're utilizing the moon energy to kind of remove blocks, lean into that extra, that, that moon maxing. Did I just create a word?

Laylla: Nice.

Chelle: Think of, think of the Blue Moon as moon maxing. And, you know, lean into that if you're looking to do maybe those kinds of workings. But I did want to mention here, I did see on a thread on Instagram where people were talking about the Blue Moon being blue. It is, in fact, not blue. Can the moon sometimes give off a blue hue? Yes, but that can be any moon at any time. The Blue Moon, quote-unquote, is not necessarily blue, and I wanted to make sure I made that point.

Laylla: Do you know why they call it a Blue Moon, actually? Why do they actually call it blue? Like, why did they call it that?

Laylla: Hey, witches. Future Laylla here. Welcome to my rabbit hole. Of course, I could not let the fact that I didn't know why a Blue Moon was called blue go by. I had to look it up. In my research, I came across a historian and folklorist named Philip Hiscock, a professor at Memorial University in Newfoundland. Professor Hiscock has traced the meaning of the phrase "blue moon" back through the centuries, and he discovered that it was probably first used by King Henry VIII's advisor, Cardinal Wolsey. And Cardinal Wolsey said that his intellectual enemies, quote, "would have you believe the moon is blue." The idea behind this is that because the moon is always roughly white or yellow, to call it blue was to say that this was an impossibility or something that was absurd. Over time, the phrase came to mean something like "never," something that was impossible. Later in the 19th century in London, the phrase "blue moon" started to be slang for a long time. And it was first seen in print in 1821 about working-class London, where someone is quoted as saying, "I haven't seen you this blue moon." The next reference came later in 1869, where a shipwreck survivor was referring to an indefinite period known as a blue moon, and another character admitting to eating a fruit pastry once in a blue moon. So, the phrase was in use in the 17, 18, and early 1900s as something that was rare or didn't happen often. United States had a big hand in using the phrase "a blue moon" to actually refer to lunar events, and this happened in the state of Maine. Each season of a year is three months long, and typically, that season will have three Full Moons. Occasionally, we know, because our calendar doesn't exactly line up with the moon phases, there will be four Full Moons in a season. And Farmers' Almanac in Maine began calling that extra Full Moon a Blue Moon. And there's all sorts of reasons why they may have done that, but the most reasonable one is it's something that happened once in a while. And then finally, we get to either 1946 or 1980, depending on where you read it, an amateur astronomer named James Hugh Pruett wrote an article about the term "blue moon" for a magazine called Sky & Telescope. And we're not sure exactly why he said this, but he simplified the idea of four Full Moons in a season that normally has three of them by saying that a Blue Moon was the second Full Moon that occurred in a calendar month. Not exactly right according to the original definition, but pretty close. Pruett's definition of a Blue Moon was easy to understand, easy to see, and really captured people's imagination. Figuring out if there are three or four Full Moons in a season, not that easy. But discovering if there's a second Full Moon in a calendar month, that's pretty easy to do and something that we all like. Which is, heathens, people in general, I think, love those little secret hooks that connect us to nature. And feeling like we're in on the magic when we discover a second Full Moon in a calendar month makes it extra special and extra magical for all of us. Thanks for joining me on this rabbit hole. Future Laylla out.

Chelle: I mean, calling it a Blue Moon tends to lean into maybe some emotional work, uh, working through some emotional things, getting, setting yourself right emotionally. You know, if you're going to lean into the, the blue theme, that would kind of lead me down emotional workings paths.

Laylla: You can lean into that association. We all call it a Blue Moon. And, and again, like we had mentioned, blue is associated with feminine energy, with psychic awareness, with intuition, with emotional healing. And so you can work with those energies alongside those same types of energies that you get from a Full Moon. And I love that you mentioned removing blocks, because one of the things I found in my research is that in the Hoodoo tradition, the Blue Moon is considered to have exceptional power, and it's used at that time for road opening work and removing blockages. So, at that time, in Hoodoo work traditions, they would do deep healing. And so, again, that color blue and, and our associations of the moon with feminine energy,

Chelle: And doing that emotional work.

Laylla: Exactly. This would be a time to journal a lot, to go through old journal entries and see how far you've come, see what's changed, see what hasn't changed. Definitely a time to pull tarot cards and to try and use that intuition and that deep knowing. So, the 31st would be, especially since it's your birthday, what a better time to pull tarot cards than on a Blue Moon that is Chelle the tarot-obsessed collectors, I mean, sorry, uh, what are we calling it?

Chelle: Tarot enthusiast, that sounds nicer.

Laylla: There we go. On Chelle the tarot enthusiast's birthday, what better day to pull some tarot cards?

Chelle: But this also would be a time, speaking of tarot, you can pull one card, pull three cards, but this is kind of more of a in-depth reading. This would maybe be more of a time where I might be pulling, you know, maybe 10 or 11 cards, um, doing some full-on deep spread.

Laylla: If you're going to be pulling a lot of cards, I was going to say, why not pull 13? Even though this isn't the 13th moon of this year, this year will technically have 13 moons, and this is the bonus one, so why not pull 13 cards for that Blue Moon day?

Chelle: Dude, that's 31 backwards.

Laylla: Oh, see? Okay, there you go. Now you have to pull 13 cards.

Chelle: Have to pull 13 cards now, because I'm not pulling 31.

Laylla: Right? No, no, no. Let's just pull 13 cards to represent the Blue Moon and your birthday and the day backwards.

Chelle: But also kind of that taking it a little bit deeper, taking it a step deeper, um, because it is kind of that, that moment, that time to do that. So, like I said, more appropriate to do something that's a little more extensive than maybe a one, two, three card spread.

Laylla: The number part of my brain, the mathematical part of my brain is very tickled by what you said about 13 and the 31st. I, I love that they're mirrored. I love that they're backwards. I, I'm going to have to pull 13 cards on the 31st now. And maybe even an extra four cards, because you and I both have the birth number of four, and the day's number is four, and the number 13 is a special lucky number for me, so,

Chelle: And goes down to four.

Laylla: Yes! I know, I love it. So, the mathematical part of my brain is, is like going crazy right now, very excited to pull these cards. And 13 is also a very deeply intuitive, very spiritual number. So, that fits as well with this whole entire theme.

Chelle: You're taking me down a rabbit hole here quick. So, I want to stop you in your tracks, and I know that I, I, I tend to make you left turn here, but you're making me want to pull a card right now.

Laylla: Well, it is your birthday month, so of course you're allowed.

Chelle: So, I'm just going to shuffle up real quick. Hold on.

Laylla: I didn't tell you, but I have this oracle deck right here next to me that I've kind of fallen in love with. So, while you shuffle that deck, I'm going to shuffle this one. So, if you pull a tarot card for your birthday month, I'm going to pull an oracle card. We'll see what we get. All right, so first tell me what deck you're using.

Chelle: Okay, I am using the Crystal Keys Tarot.

Laylla: I freaking love that deck.

Chelle: Which we're going to talk about in an upcoming episode real soon.

Laylla: Because we both love that deck.

Chelle: You are going to laugh your fool head off when I tell you what card I pulled.

Laylla: What'd you pull?

Chelle: The High Priestess. Intuition, magic, all of the things.

Laylla: Wow. All right, so tell me when to stop, and I'll pull the first card.

Chelle: Stop.

Laylla: Ooh. So, I am using, this is a deck that was recently sent to us. It's absolutely fabulous. It's called the Four Selves Oracle. It's by Toni Savory with artwork by Carrie Parris. And I love the artwork of this deck. I haven't used it enough yet to know if I absolutely love the meanings or not, but the artwork, on point. So, the card that I drew for May this year, particularly the Blue Moon of May, is number 16, Door. And I'll post up a picture of this because it is a stunning card.

Chelle: Ooh.

Laylla: It's two doors opening onto a star-lit field.

Chelle: These cards have a lot in common.

Laylla: They really do. Image-wise, we'll post pictures of this on social media.

Chelle: They have a lot in common visually.

Laylla: Yeah, yeah. Let's see what you guys think. And I will also post up the, the meaning of this card. But why don't you go ahead and tell me about the High Priestess.

Chelle: First of all, we're going to do a review of this deck coming up here shortly. But this deck basically assigns a stone or crystal to each of the cards. So, the High Priestess card is associated with selenite in this particular deck. So, the card is beautiful. It's got selenite, uh, sticks and a nice big selenite mound with a crescent moon at the top. But I just had to laugh because intuition, that divine feminine, that mysteriousness, that is like everything that we have said so far about this Blue Moon. So, I, I definitely feel that, and there is, like I said, a crescent moon in this card. So, I feel like the focus this month really should be on working the moon. You know, we already had our, our first Full Moon of this month. We've got a New Moon,

Laylla: On Beltane.

Chelle: Yep, on Beltane. We've got the New Moon coming up here real, real quick, and then a second Full Moon. I think this is the month where we kind of hone in on those reflections, looking at that wisdom that you can only get from working with the moon. You know, I'm not saying that any other month isn't a great month to do that, but I feel like this month in particular, find that stillness, you know, take that time to reflect, meditate, whatever, and, and get into that cycle, get into your own new rhythm. Because I think that people are looking for, I think people are at a point where a new rhythm is the way.

Laylla: One of the things I noticed in looking at these cards is the High Priestess in that deck is selenite, which is white. It looks like a Full Moon. It looks like a beautiful Full Moon. That whole card is selenite white. And the card that I have from the Four Selves Oracle is number 16, Door. And this is two doors with two statues opening onto a moonless, starry sky. This is the New Moon. To me, this is saying New Moon. And guess what day this month is the New Moon?

Chelle: The 16th.

Laylla: It is. And this card is number 16. So, what I'm seeing with this card and this feeling and your card along with the High Priestess is I feel like this cycle from the new moon to the second full moon, the blue moon of this month, feels very much like a liminal space, walking a special space that we have created. We as a people have made this sacred, and that's important. I think that is just as special as something that you have found in an ancient text. We have all collectively decided this blue moon is special and sacred, and we are coming off of that full moon Beltane energy, that rush of life, that creation of life, that energies coming together to create something new. Now we're going within. The day after this episode comes out is the 16th. It's the new moon. It's the moon dark. It's the time when you go within, and this door card is saying find that space within yourself. Go within to the dark. Get ready for the light. Get ready for the full moon because this next full moon is going to be in Sagittarius. It's coming between the liminal space of May and June. June 1st is going to also be the full moon, and that's coming into summer. The summer solstice is coming up. We're coming into the lushness, and so take that Sagittarius arrow of this full moon, that High Priestess coming up, and direct that energy. This is when you want to manifest, right? When you're doing manifestation work, you started at the new moon, you work towards the full moon. So in the theme of Chelle's moon maxing and doing magic between the spokes, start doing something every day to work that magic. Start thinking about what do you want to manifest on that full moon. When that full moon full power is ready, what arrow do you want to be ready to sling, to shoot to the universe to work your will?

Chelle: And I think it's also, you know, a good time for reevaluation because something that happens once every so often, sometimes we don't reevaluate terribly often. So taking a once in a blue moon occasion to reevaluate, even if it's just magical priorities, take that time, you know, think about those things, do readings on those things, journal those things. I said the J word, damn it.

Laylla: Ah. Hey, blue moons make you do weird things.

Chelle: Blue moons make you do weird things, and journaling can be one of them.

Laylla: That's right. All this talk of journaling made me think of a a building spell. It's really simple, but oh, you guys are going to hate this, but that's partly why it works. A very simple spell. Oh, you're going to hate this one, Chelle.

Chelle: We're journaling, aren't we?

Laylla: Yeah, but it's even worse. You know Bart Simpson at the beginning of the episode where he's written out like, "I will not taunt politicians who are found in the Epstein files," although you probably should. Or something like over and over again?

Chelle: Yes.

Laylla: You're kind of going to do that with this spell.

Chelle: Oh, lord.

Laylla: It starts out easy and it gets weirdly hard. The idea is simple. You come up with one to three words that encapsulate a wish. Do not come up with a whole sentence. Think the whole sentence in your head like, "I want this promotion at work." Be pretty specific. But then come up with one word that represents that, one to three words like, um, "promotion." Because here's what you do. Starting on the new moon, you write the word once. Then the next day, you write the word twice.

Chelle: Oh, we're Bart Simpsoning this, aren't we?

Laylla: We are. Then you write the word, the next day you write the word three times in your journal. Do you see where I'm going with this?

Chelle: I do.

Laylla: So by the end of it, I don't know, you're writing it like 14, 15 times, that word over and over again in your journal. So your page is going to look a little serial killer-ish, but it will repetition sets spells. Repetition is energy. Repetition gets your subconscious, your magical brain, your body all in alignment. It lets the universe know you're serious about it.

Chelle: And that's why you see a lot of things in threes, nines, 13s, 21s because of that exact thing.

Laylla: Right. And so not only is this repetition, it's also building. It's building magic. By literally writing it down more times today than you did yesterday, you're building. You're building on what you did before. You are growing that energy towards your goal. So simple spell, harder to do. Try to only pick one word.

Chelle: Yeah, do not be picking like a paragraph or you'll be insane by day 13.

Laylla: Your hand will not thank you. Ask me how I know. But, uh, but yeah, so that's a pretty simple one.

Chelle: Things that have been brought up, moon water. You know, what do I do different with my moon water? Nothing. If you are a moon water person, collect your moon water. Mark your moon water. Mark it blue moon, unless you're Laylla and you got 96 jars of moon water that you don't know what they're from, and now they're just really jars of water.

Laylla: It was only like five. I don't know. Yeah, put your dates on them, people. But this is a once in a blue moon. This is a once in a lifetime, well, this isn't once in a lifetime, but that's the feeling you kind of get, right? This is special and rare.

Chelle: It's every once every 2.5 years.

Laylla: Right, so take your shot. Like, do it. Take your shot. It's a Sagittarius blue moon. Literally, take your shot. If there's something that you really want, now is the time. Granted, you can do this on any full moon. Start at the new moon, work your intention, come up with what you want, and then empower that all the way up to the full moon when you shoot your shot, right? But this is a blue moon. It's special. It's reach for the moon time. It's do that rare thing time.

Chelle: You miss 100% of the shots you don't take.

Laylla: Said Wayne Gretzky. Right? We got it right, guys. We got it right. So this is Sagittarius blue moon energy. Shoot that shot. But my point here is to moon max it, I guess. Witch max, moon max, I don't know. Every day, set your intention on this new moon, the 16th. You got a couple hours anyways if you've heard this on the day it comes out. But set your intention. What is that special, amazing thing that you want?

Chelle: And now you've got two weeks for that that build up. You've got two weeks to kind of ramp up your intention. Maybe if you're one of those people who comes up with something a day or two in advance, maybe this time you do it a week in advance. You know, kind of ramp up what you do. Max what you do.

Laylla: Do something every day.

Chelle: Do a little extra this go round.

Laylla: Set this up for the next two weeks. It's only two weeks. It's not going to kill you. Every day up to this blue moon, maybe if you're not doing your 15 witchy minutes, maybe you could start that now just for the next two weeks. And in those 15 minutes, 5 minutes, if you've got 5 minutes to spend, light a candle or light some incense or play that witchy song that you love while you think about that amazing, once in a lifetime, blue moon thing that you're shooting for, that you're raising energy for. Maybe while you have your coffee or your tea in the morning, or maybe while you're cooking, I don't know. Pick a time.

Chelle: Pull that one tarot card every day.

Laylla: Yeah, pick something different every day. Maybe gather items for a spell that you're going to do on the blue moon. And I have I have an interesting spell that we'll talk about a little bit towards the end here that can be done on the blue moon. So maybe you start gathering items and charging those items with intention each day. But try to build that energy between the new moon and the full blue moon.

Chelle: Now, for me, I kind of will be using this time, me and my New Year's resolutions, and I hate resolutions and think of birthdays as a new year for people, kind of a reevaluation time for for the next year. Um, but that's more me personally birthday related than it is necessarily blue moon related.

Laylla: But that's a good point is that it's a good idea to pick something like your birthday to do maybe, maybe not a resolution because I know you hate that word, but to do a reevaluation, to do a dedication. Birthdays are fabulous time to rededicate yourself to something. You know, maybe rededicate yourself to a year and a day of learning, or dedicate yourself to a year and a day of tarot. Not collecting them, Chelle, maybe just learning about them.

Chelle: I did like 100 years and 100 days of that commitment. But take advantage of, even if it doesn't apply to you right now this episode this month, there's something to be said in birthday magic, too. And for me, I am combining that birthday magic with that special once in a blue moon magic, and hopefully it'll be fireworks for all. But really, it's about just just take the time every day to for that build up, I think. We as a human species have made this special. Okay, let's make it special.

Laylla: Is there anything you're going to be doing special? Do you feel any special kinship between your birthday and this full moon? Any wishes that you'll have? I mean, hey, you could wish on your birthday candles. Are you going to do anything like that?

Chelle: I do like birthday candles and wishes. I I've always found the irony in that whole concept. Different episode.

Laylla: That there's witchcraft in birthday candles? Yeah.

Chelle: 110%. But I I do think that there is something magical in making a wish and blowing out that candle and putting it out to the universe. I think this year I might want to do that after after the moon has risen so that the moon catches my wishes.

Laylla: The moon, the blue moon, will be full at 9:34 p.m. Eastern Time.

Chelle: So that's when I'm going to have to blow out birthday candles.

Laylla: That's right. Perfect. Because it's a blue moon, and my birthday was on a full moon as well, and it's Chelle's birthday, I think that any birthday candle, if any of our listeners have a birthday candle, you can use that and get extra special boosty magic from Chelle's birthday and the blue moon full moon birthday connection.

Chelle: I will spread the birthday love.

Laylla: That's right. So we've got you guys. If you use a birthday candle in a spell on May 31st, you get a little extra boost from Chelle and Laylla.

Chelle: I remember when it was your birthday in February and we were so like enthralled by the fact that both of our birthdays were on full moons this year.

Laylla: Right? How fun. Here we are.

Chelle: Here we are.

Laylla: We've come kind of full circle. I'm so excited. We are doing so many fun and exciting things this year. I've been loving getting the new books. We have some author interviews coming up. We have a lot of fun things planned for this year, including, well, as long as gas prices don't go too too crazy, we've got a lot of traveling. We've got a lot of festivals we are hopefully going to do this year. It's it's pretty exciting. This blue moon, I think, has a feels pretty good. It feels exciting. It feels like good energy to me.

Chelle: It really does, and I think it's, you know, you talked earlier about pathways and and door openings and then the door opening card. And I just feel like this is a very door opening season for all. I think a lot of people are having a door opening season. Pathways are, I think, being cleared for a lot of folks right now specifically. If that applies to you, I think we all need to just hang tight and ride that wave because the doors are open and the gates are open and

Laylla: A lot of times that can be tumultuous. That isn't always easy. I don't think blue moon energy in particular is tumultuous. I just feel like maybe this season or the energy that's in the air right now is kind of tumultuous.

Chelle: I don't know.

Laylla: And the moon just is going to amplify that.

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: Yeah, and I think Sagittarius season might amplify that a little bit, too. But just like Sagittarians have that arrow, the bow and arrow, we can also direct that energy. But you have to be in control of it. It's not always easy to draw a bow, to pull back that string. You have to put some elbow grease into it, I guess. But we can do it.

Chelle: I can't wait to be a Gemini in Sagittarius season. Woo-hoo!

Laylla: Oh, man. Yeah, that sounds, yeah.

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: That should be fun. That'll be fun. I think that'll be fun. It's going to be fun, right?

Chelle: We'll have to talk about how fun it is in the moment.

Laylla: After. All right, well, I suppose future Laylla will chime in and say whether it was fun or not. All right, but before we go, I have one last spell for everybody that you would do on the 31st, on the full blue moon itself.

Chelle: You are giving me so many tasks. I'm going to be a busy girl on my birthday.

Laylla: I love this one. This one's a lot of fun. This one is a blue moon blessing spell, and this is to bless your most magical, witchy tool that you own.

Chelle: Or maybe it's your first magical tool that you own.

Laylla: It probably is everybody's first magical tool that they own, and that's you. This blessing is for yourself and treating yourself as the magical being that you are. What you need is some blue eyeliner, incense, a candle, preferably a blue one, any essential oil that you love, and your favorite robe or your favorite outfit. Go into this knowing that you are the sacred magical tool that you are going to be consecrating under this full moon. You are rare and special and deserving of all these good things, just like Chelle is deserving of all good things on her birthday. I want you to take a cleansing bath. Chelle loves a freaking cleansing bath. If you got a clawfoot tub in the woods, use that shit.

Chelle: Go as simple or as elaborate as you want. If you're just drawing water, draw water. If you're going to put some ritual oil in there, maybe some flower petals, rock on. That's my idea of a beautiful birthday ritual bath. But plain old water will do.

Laylla: That's right. Pamper yourself, cleanse yourself. Go into it with the idea, again, you are cleansing your ritual tool, your sacred magical tool, yourself. So treat it as such. Then take your candle, your incense, your eyeliner, your oil, and go out under that beautiful full moon. 9:34 is when it rises. Go out under that moonlight, take your incense, and cleanse yourself with it. Bless yourself with it. Waft that incense all over the magical tool of you. If you want to do this skyclad, that's probably how I'd do it. Dress as nicely or as little as you'd like. Might be freezing.

Chelle: Temperature dependent for me.

Laylla: That's right. Might be cold, in which case I'm in a fuzzy robe. Whatever feels wonderful in the moment. Anyway, bless yourself with the incense. Then light the candle and gaze at your skin under that beautiful glowing candle and the beautiful light of the moon, which is hopefully not hiding behind a cloud. Then anoint yourself with your essential oil, preferably wherever you need the most blessing. Bless your hands if you need help with work or with crafting. Bless your heart if you have emotional ties that you need blessing, good or bad. Bless your third eye if you need help maybe with knowledge or with with intuition or with going within. So bless wherever feels like you need that. Then take the blue eyeliner and draw a sigil on yourself or draw a symbol, draw a word somewhere, just like you would your magical tool. Write your symbol on yourself as your magical tool. And again, put it where you need it on your body. And then stand under the light of that moon. Let that moonlight soak into you, into your skin, into the rare, special, beautiful, magical, sacred tool that is you. And then when you're done, take your incense, your candle, take it back inside and just be good to yourself for the night. Celebrate Chelle's birthday. Maybe blow out a birthday candle or two and set some manifestation intentions. But let that moonlight bless you. Create moon water that's in your body. You are what, more than 70% water? So you be the magical vessel and bless that water within you with the blue moon.

Chelle: And I think that that is actually such a wonderful way to celebrate such a special moon because what is the one magical tool that we always forget about? Ourselves. And what better time than, a, blue moon, b, my birthday, to do some self-care magic? Um, so I think that maybe what would make it a tiny bit more magical and that would make the spell work a little bit more could be bubbles.

Laylla: Yes, making that bath as as witch maxy, moon maxy, Chelle birthday maxing as possible. I'm so going to stop maxing everything, I swear. But yeah, bubbles for sure.

Chelle: Bubbles for sure.

Laylla: Who doesn't love a bubble bath? And come on, it's Chelle's birthday. At the very least, you should take an indulgent bath.

Chelle: With bubbles.

Laylla: With bubbles and oils and candles and music and incense and, yeah.

Chelle: But make it magically intentional for you and and to focus on being the best vessel that you can be because ultimately we are a vessel for deity. And just as you clean your chalice, you clean your athame, you always put stones to clean your tarot decks of energy, what the hell you doing to yourself? So clean the energy, cleanse yourself, and celebrate me with a bath.

Laylla: Hell yes. Okay, well, on that note, I think everybody should go out, spend this time gathering the most luxurious bath items that you can. Set your intention on the new moon, and then gather your your Chelle's birthday bath items and your spell items and grow that energy from the new moon to the blue moon. And blow out a wish candle.

Chelle: Let us know what magic you're making for this blue moon. Is it any specialer than any other moon or are you just treating it like a regular full moon? Let us know. We are very curious.

Laylla: Before I go, we are also going to be sharing some pictures of this adorable little red squirrel that somehow weirdly ended up in my laundry room, and we're still not exactly sure how it happened. But

Chelle: Because all animals love Laylla.

Laylla: Right? So weird. But why my laundry room? Anyway, I was able to find an animal rehabber named Caitlyn. Shout out to Caitlyn. And we are going to be putting a link up to Caitlyn's Amazon wish list, as well as hopefully putting up a GoFundMe or something for her in the future as well because this is hard work and expensive work, and no one could help me with this poor little baby four-week-old squirrel that I named Pip, short for Pippin, by the way. And Caitlyn did. She went above and beyond. She didn't have room, she made room, after trying person after person, rehabber after rehabber, on her daughter's birthday with six kids. She went out of her way to help me with this poor orphan squirrel who is now doing very well, thank you. So we're going to put up links if anyone is interested in helping an animal rehabber, and in particular, little Pip, the red squirrel that I helped to rescue. Uh, we'll have links for that in the show notes. Maybe you can do that as a special birthday gift to Chelle.

Chelle: And if you are unable to do such a thing at this time, but in the future would like to assist with animal rehab, please seek out an animal rehab in your local area and see what you can do to assist, whether it be with donations or supplies.

Laylla: Exactly. Thank you all so very much for listening to this episode of Back on the Broomstick. Please like, subscribe, give us some reviews, give us some stars. Hey, it is Chelle's birthday. Throw us something nice there on the reviews on Apple or wherever you get your podcasts.

Chelle: And don't forget, if you're interested in sending me a birthday card, we got that new PO box. It is PO Box 21, Tioga, PA, 16946.

Laylla: If you'd like to send Chelle some birthday wishes, it would really make her day. Actually, it would make her whole month. Thank you for everyone who has sent something in already, and thank you so much if you're considering something in. She would love it. We are going to go get ready, gather our supplies, and get our journaling hands ready, Chelle. You're going to write a lot in your journal for this Blue Moon?

Chelle: I am, but first I'm going to run over and check out Caitlyn's wishlist and help Pippin out.

Laylla: Aw, I love that. So after you guys donate to our little red squirrel Pippin, be wise, be wicked,

Chelle: and use that birthday energy this month and keep it witchy.
