Welcome to Back on the Broomstick, a modern witch's spoken word grimmooire where two witchy friends from way back [music] are reconnecting to their pagan roots after a long period of mundanity. >> We're rewalking the path of the wise and trying out all the latest spells, rituals, and magical theory in today's witchcraft [music] and pagan practices. >> So, grab your wand and your incense, your cauldron, and [music] your crystals, >> and join us as we get back on the broomstick. Hi and welcome to Back on the Broomstick. I'm Laya and on this episode we're talking all things solar energy, solar magic and the gods and goddesses of the sun and how to utilize that in your craft without getting burned. And I'm Michelle and I really just want to say that I've had my first encounter with the sun and it bit me. And I'm not going to talk about my sunburn or my tan, but I'm feeling the sun energy really deep right now. We are moving towards Litha. Spring is well underway and the sunny days are usually here. Today is particularly overcast, but we are coming off of three glorious days of sun and sunshine and heat. As much as we say we love summer, a lot of us tend to neglect the energies and the power and the magic that we can get from the sun. You know, it's really weird because when you think of witches and you think of witchcraft and you think of doing magic and you think of doing spells, everybody's mind really kind of goes to what's the moon phase? I've got to do this during a certain phase of the moon or I've got to wait until nighttime when the moon is out. Whatever the phase it is, they forget that big ball in the sky. I know that some of us feel that vampireic need to be so recluse during the daylight, but there is just as much power and energy in the sun as there is in the moon. And I think that that just gets brushed under the rug a lot. >> The cycles that the moon follows, the whole monthly cycle, it's a comfortable, familiar, repeating system. We might not be as familiar with the sun systems with the daily and the yearly cycles that the sun goes through. There's the wheel of the year and that's another cycle. That's the solar cycle. >> What? >> Right. Exactly. We forget sometimes that the wheel of the year follows the solar cycle, the seasons of the sun. In history, people have worshiped that energy. People have honored that energy and have worked with that energy in their magic and in their practices because it is a lifegiver. When you look at the moon, you might think dark rights and mysticism and magic. But when you look at the sun, >> I'm thinking food. I'm thinking sustenance. I'm thinking that lifegiver. >> Exactly. We think growth, nourishment, you >> warmth. >> Warmth. Exactly. All these things that you need to be alive. And that's exactly what our ancestors saw as well, both literally and magically. The sun was seen as a protector. I mean, how many ancient peoples would feel relief when the sun would rise because they made it through the night? And there's a lot of dangers and darkness in the night. So, the sun was seen as rescuing them or saving them from that. And it it ripened crops. It got stronger and would warm you after winter. So, it's not surprising that a lot of cultures related it to like a father figure. the protector, the one that would help banish predators, illuminate danger, and that power was immediate. It was right there, easy to see, >> which always kind of baffled me on why it kind of got brushed under the rug so much. >> Yeah, we talked about this just a little bit when we were talking about this episode on how in a lot of modern witchcraft back when we first started and Wikah was a big thing. Even then there was a lot of Dianic Wikah and and even in mainstream Wikah I guess if that's a thing >> I was gonna say is there a thing >> I don't know it was duality it was God and goddess but the goddess was still emphasized and now even now today I I see the goddess emphasized a lot in modern paganism and witchcraft practices uh and the god and the sun not so much. I think it's starting to get more equal but you don't see that as much. It's definitely coming out. And part of that conversation that we had, I was struggling personally to come up with a list of sun goddesses because I can only rattle off a few sun gods. Pagans in general have a hard time seeing God. In general, we tend to worship a goddess. When you talk to Wiccans, they talk about the goddess. They talk about the mother. They don't talk about the father or the god. But you do also have some goddesses. There are some cultures and some religions that see the sun as female and the moon as male. In particular, uh in Norse cultures in in Norse religions, they have uh Suna who is the goddess of the sun and they worship that as a feminine energy. There's also Amatarasu who is Japanese and Bridget is Celtic. She's a flame goddess and can be seen as a solar goddess. And one goddess that I was introduced to not too long ago is one that I hadn't heard of very often and her name is Sulis and she's a Celtic goddess. And I have a it's a very short simple spell and it does involve journaling. So I don't know how much you'll like it shell but it's a >> it also can involve tea. So maybe I can entice you with the tea. We'll see. But Sulis is a Celtic and Galish goddess, Celtic goddess of healing, sacred thermal spring. So like hot water, light, and prophecy. So she's described very often as a Celtic sun goddess. But in particular, she's like a thermal spring, like a hot water goddess. >> Ooh. And they've found tablets to her in some ancient baths, and people would leave curses that she would hopefully carry out for them. So, she was also a goddess of justice, which was kind of pretty interesting. But that made a lot of sense to me because the sun brings things to light, right? The whole idea that the sun exposes things and and banish goes along with justice. Yeah, I see. Because at first when you said justice, I was like, I don't see the tiein. But now that you say that, >> so it made a lot of sense to me that that uh people would write curses that they would hope would bring justice that she would that she would carry out to bring justice to their enemies. Some cultures also created religious landmarks or or cultural landmarks based around the sun and and all I could think of was the tour when the sun comes up on the equinoxes how it's so perfectly in there. Yeah. A lot of cultures not only worshiped deities but they actually built monuments. They built temples to worship the sun. Stonehenge aligns with the summer solstice. And across Europe, in the Americas, Africa, Asia, there are all sorts of temples, different rock formations that align with the sun, that align with different solar events. Again, because it was something very easy to see. So, yeah, they didn't just worship deities. Very often, they would build long lasting monuments to the sun itself, >> sacred spaces. But Lakshmi is a Hindu goddess and that's probably the one that I associate the most with the sun. A lot of different cultures throughout history have worshiped the sun. Egypt is one of the big cultures. When people think about sun worship in Egyptian religion, there's a ton of deities. Rah being the big one. And then you've got Helios, uh, Apollo, Greek and Roman. A lot of them drive chariots. You know, that whole idea of the sun going across the sky. I mean, you can trace it back to every culture, every religion. Everybody has some sort of of ritual practice that involves the sun. Even if it's just as simple as sewing the seeds out in the land. The point we're trying to make is that the sun, we all see it. Everybody around the world sees the sun. So, we all have different ways of honoring that because it is a lifegiver. It does bring things to life. It helps us to grow. It helps to bring things to light. So it it's not surprising that ancient people worshiped it. What is surprising is that we don't necessarily worship it as much now as we used to. >> I do find that interesting. But I I look back and I think that there is some times where the sun is woripped in ways that we don't take note of. Again, when you look at some of the sacred sites, you might not think of that as worship now, but you know, how many people still go to the tour every day? How many people still go to to the pyramids every day? They don't think in their minds it's outright sun worshiing, but they're going there for that re. Why do thousands of people go to the tour on the solstice to see the sun? Because they are there to worship the sun. Um, so I think that a lot of people maybe subconsciously do it more so than than with the moon. >> And we do in modern pagan practices, in modern witchcraft, if you follow the wheel of the year, Litha in particular, Lunasa, you know, we we do honor the god. We do honor the sun and we talk about the changing of the guard with the oak king and the holly king kind of happening in early summer and then late summer. So we do talk about the god. We do talk about the sun, but we do it a lot subconsciously. I think when we talk about the wheel of the year and these solar events, we don't necessarily explicitly say that that's God energy, that that's masculine energy, outward forward energy, but it's there a little bit. It's there a little bit. >> It's the underlying tone. Yeah. >> So, what are some things that we do worship? Like if we wanted to be more explicit in our working with solar magic, solar energy and and honoring sunlight, honoring that half of the moon and the sun balance in our lives. What are some things that the sun represents to you? What kind of energy? >> Illumination. You know, you talked about bringing light to things, illumination, enlightenment, vitality. I do find a sense of freedom with with the sun energy. And let me explain that real quick because in the dark you feel you can't see things and you almost feel a confinement in the dark whereas in the light all is there for you to see and that's kind of freeing. Um so that's where I get that freedom feeling personal fulfillment. But here's the thing. You know, we're talking about all I'm I'm I'm mentioning throwing off all these things, but I also see the sun as a means of burning away, as a means of destruction if necessary. You know, like I joked at the beginning that I I got bit by the sun. The sun tried to destruct a piece of my skin. Say you have something that that you want to shed away or burn away. Utilizing the sun as part of that spell or that ritual is a great way to do that. Success, ambition, the sun can literally light that fire under your ass to get you motivated. Um, so those are some things that I find that relate to working with that sun energy. >> Again, it's like for like magic. What does the sun do in the world? What does it do for life and for living things? Those are the things that it will do for you. And just like you said, Shell, if you hold up a magnifying glass, you can start a fire. You can concentrate that energy. You can gather that energy to you. Or you can hold up a solar panel and draw in that energy and and work with it for some other end. So you can be that magnifying glass or that solar panel in your magical practice and pull in that energy. I mean, what's more powerful than the sun? So, why not borrow a little of that energy to empower your practice? >> Exactly. And that that kind of touches on my last point with sun energy is, you know, I just mentioned off I rattled off a list of of different things that I relate to working with the sun. But the other thing is is that I could be do any kind of working, any kind of spell, any kind of ritual and utilize that sun energy as like a magnifier, as kind of a boost, you know, like a a laser pointer, so to say. You can utilize that energy even if it's not related to one of the things I just rattled off, but use it more as like an amplifier as like a all I can think of is one of those bad8s movies where they have like this energy gatherer and then it points in a laser pointer and like laser point something. That's how I visualize sometimes using that sun energy as more of a an energy boost to your workings. The sun is extremely powerful in empowering things, in destroying things. It can also purify things. It also has the power to cleanse germs, to remove stains. If you've ever put anything out in the sun, it can bleach it down to nothing. So, the sun has a lot of different energies that you can utilize in your work. Think of how it makes you feel. Certain times of the year, the sun might make you feel sensual. It might help you be more in your body to feel good in yourself. You go outside and you feel happy. You feel good. And that might be in the middle of winter when the sun is not strong. Or it might be in the middle of summer when the sun is at its height. That's going to differ which to which. But how that sun makes you feel at sunrise, at noon, at sunset, that's going to dictate the flavor of magic, I guess, that you're using. And so that kind of brings me to another point that we talked about a little bit ago is the the phases of the sun. The sun doesn't just go through a yearly cycle, it also has a daily cycle. And that cycle changes every single day as we move through that season. And just like you work with the phases of the moon, you can work with the phases of the sun. >> And I think that people don't think of the sun in that way. And I think as we go through this in just a second, they're going to be like, "Oh, yeah." So the first phase of the sun that goes through the day is is kind of that waxing phase, sunrise. Or maybe other people look at a different phase of it as waxing, but I look at sunrise as the waxing phase. And this is where, you know, if I wanted to do working is about beginning or change or renewal or resurrection or finding my way even health related, I'd wake my happy ass up and do something at sunrise and kind of harness that sunrise, that new beginning energy. And the sun is beginning for the day and you're looking to do things for change and beginnings. And just like the waxing moon phase, which is much longer, several days long as opposed to just a few hours long, the waxing sun is growing in power. The power is rising. So that's why we set intentions in the morning. The sun is growing in strength. So if you want something to grow in strength over the day, that's when you start it. If you want something to grow in power, start it at the waxing sun. >> Next, I I call morning. I don't know if there's a better name for it, but like midm morning, that midm morning sun where it's growing in strength, things are kind of ramping up, things are positive, kind of that expansion, things are expanding. It's already come up. It's in the sky, but it's still expanding. Things are growing. Um, so I look at that as a time to do magic for getting things to prosper. >> Yes. So, I would say that would probably be from sunrise until probably just before noon in my personal opinion. That whole morning idea, >> like 11ish. Yeah, I had to put time on it. [laughter] >> Now, here's the tricky one. Noon, midday, full moon, full sun. >> Depends on where you live on where high sun when high sun is. >> Well, noonish is going to be about the highest point it's probably going to be during the day usually, maybe. So, do you go by time or do you go by when the sun is at its highest point? >> See, that's so funny because I have two answers for that. I feel like in the summertime I do the high noon thing and in the winter time it's when the sun is at its peak because usually the sun is at its peak, at least where we are located, more like 2 3:00, but then that kind of shortens when when the last two phases are. But there's something weird about that sun being peak later in the afternoon in the winter that I kind of shift with that. >> Yeah. I would say I typically go by the clock. It's just easier. >> Yeah. >> And especially for noon, I would say probably for that full power, anywhere between like 11 and 1, I would say for me is like the full sun time if I'm going to do something in the full sun. But I don't usually worry too much about it. Anytime that sun feels really strong and powerful in that midday time, I think that's the full sun time and that's the full power. That's when you're going to be pushing out the most energy. So, if you have a powerful working that needs a lot of energy to push it forward, particularly if it has something to do with sun type energy, success, reaching your goals, growing something, nurturing something, or even burning something away. Midday would be a good time to do that. Okay, here's another thing I've got for you for midday. Not all of my things, not all of my magical tools do I want to put outside overnight, leave under the full moon overnight or charge in that manner and or maybe it's just not the jive I'm feeling at the moment and I want to actually uh cleanse and charge my tools with the sun. This is the time high noon would be if I were going to charge some tools under the sun. It would be during the high noon time. Kind of put them out at the end of that morning phase and leave them out through that peak sun point. Here's your little witchy PSA. If you're going to put crystals or anything that is able to amplify the sun or diffuse the sun in any way outside, yeah, make sure you stay nearby and keep an eye on it because there have been more than one occasion where someone's mirror reflective surface or crystal has caused a fire. >> Yeah, definitely be careful. Just be careful. >> The sun is powerful and that's that's just another example of that. But definitely put them out to absorb that solar energy if you want to store that just like you would put your moon water out to absorb moon energy or your tools to do that as well. >> Put your sun water out to get that high noon sun. Yeah. >> And I know we've talked about sun tea as a spell before, but it definitely is worth mentioning because that is a fabulous way to get a little bit of that energy into yourself. Make some sun tea. Choose herbs to your intention. put them in to steep and set it out in the in the middle of the day to absorb the energy of the sun. >> And then that's something that you can drink maybe later in the evening to kind of give you that extra boost of energy or save it for the next day. Whatever works for you. >> Have it as part of a spell. You could use that for the journaling spell with sulus that we're going to talk about later. But the other thing that I really enjoy with sun tea and tea is that, you know, a lot of people talk about one of the simple witchy things to do, everybody turns to first is stirring your intentions into your morning drink, >> right? >> Well, I know this is dumb, but it just hit me today that we talk about you stir them in clockwise and counterclockwise or as we learned it, deosil and wittershins. And deosil means with the sun and wittershins means opposite. I don't know exactly what wittershins mean. >> It just went backwards. >> I think it means backwards or opposite. I'm not positive. Counterclockwise. But I know that deosil means with the sun. So you stir clockwise because that's the way the sun moves across the sky. >> With the sun. >> Deosil. And that just hit me. I was like, "Oh yeah." So that's another thing that we do that's kind of like hidden. It's a little bit of sun worship, solar worship in our magical practice. Now the next phase, I think of this phase as the waning phase and this is afternoon. And by afternoon in my mind, for what that's worth, I'm thinking of like 2 3:00ish to like that 5 6:00ish time, you know, like that mid to late afternoon time. I look at that as kind of the waning time. You're headed down. You're wrapping it up. You're not done, but you're wrapping it up. Good for communication, business matters, travel, exploring, but you're not at that peak anymore. You still got that energy, but it's kind of pulling back a little bit. You've got this down to like a couple hour blocks. I just think like morning, midday, sunset. [laughter] I That's pretty cool. All right. So then I would just say that after two, I would call all of that waning. I would call that waning sun. Anything that you would do during a waning moon. You're putting things to rest. You're putting things down. Just like you said, it's time to wrap things up, put things away, uh put on the finishing touches. Now, the final phase for me, the sunset. I kind of equate this, and this might throw you for a loop, but I kind of equate sunset or my my idea of sunset to the dark moon. And here's why. Because I look at that afternoon period as kind of that time when the sun is going down and it's hitting like where we are. You know, you see that mountain and when the sun hits the mountain, you don't see it anymore, but it's still kind of light out. You're in that kind of light, kind of dark. So for sunset, I think of that as the time when the sun is below the mountain. You still got those little traces of light left, but the sun is for all intents purposes gone from at least my sky. >> So, similar to when the dark moon, it's there, but it's not. Right? >> I think of sunset is like the dark moon equivalent because it's there but it's not. From the end of midday till sunset, that's your waning moon. That's your waning sun. And then sunset itself is the dark sun. That's when the it's just the light. The sun's not there anymore. It's just the last hints of light before the night sky. So, I agree. I like that. I like that particular characterization. That's that fits. >> Yeah. So, those those are what I think of when I think of the phases of the sun each day. >> It's a lot like the moon, but it's much faster. It happens much quicker. The feminine moon energy that takes a whole month. You're working with that energy slowly. It's when you need things to take your time in a phase to enact your will. If you need something fast, the sun's the way to do it. You know, the sun's got that hot, fast, quick, right here. Immediate energy. >> You can do that whole phase waxing full waning finished all in one day rather than waiting for 29.5. >> One thing I also wanted to mention about about sun magic that doesn't necessarily have to do with a phase per se. I look at at the sun as a means for health magic. We all have a time where either we have an ailment or a friend or family member or loved one has an ailment and we just want to do some sort of magic. I don't ever equate health magic to nighttime to moon magic. I have always equated anything health related to the sun because of that regeneration and and that that growth and that renewal. And for me, it's the purification. The sun can kill germs. The sun can remove stains. So, it's very purifying. You can cleanse things with the sun. So, for me, that that part goes along with health as well. >> So, yeah, I just wanted to point that out because I know that sometimes we get questions about someone has has an ailment or an illness and wants advice. Work with the sun. Work with the sun for for health magic. >> The sun is it's absolutely purifying. It's transformative. It's something that can bring great change to something. It can bring great change to physical objects. Uh like breaking plastic over time, degrading degrading objects, uh leeching the color out of things. So it can physically change them and it can also bring change magically. You can use that energy to bring change. So and part of that change can sometimes be health. It can be changing your life. It can be changing you physically. Didn't we just recently talk about putting sun in in our hair back in the day and using that to make it change? >> Bringing clarity to my hair8. >> That did nothing to my hair but make it sticky, but it gave you beautiful blonde streaks. So, >> yes. Yes. But, you know, I talk about Hakkate a lot and being the goddess of crossroads and giving you insight on your path or which path to choose. The sun I feel works handinhand with hkate in that manner due to hkate kind of brings you your choices and and you have to pick your path, choose your path, which way you go and where are we headed here and then the sun in that sun energy then kind of brings clarity to that chosen path. Agate is also the torchbearer. So she does bring light to situations. She does help guide your path a lot like the sun does. So, I can see that I did mention Sulis a little bit earlier and she's a goddess that I have had a lot of interest in lately and she is a Celtic sun goddess and she also brings light to the paths and much like you can go to Hikate for guidance and for vengeance and for justice, Sulus is another goddess that will bring clarity to situations and can help you find that justice. I'm going to have to do you a little looking into into her because I've I've honestly I've never heard of her until you mentioned her today. So, I'm going to have to do a little deep dive on this one. Coming up on Litha here, I thought working with a sun, god, or goddess in your journaling practice in your pulling tarot cards might be a good idea. Some of the tarot cards that you could pull to study for, you know, this time coming up towards Litha. Obviously, the sun, the chariot, sometimes people see that as a sun card. You know, I I do like the 10 of cups uh is a sun card and I go back to the I believe it is the Robin Wood deck and I have this vision of like a happy sunshiny day, you know, frolicking out, everything's going your way. Like that card just kind of has that perfect summer day graphic to it. So the 10 of cups is also another one I think of as well. I would say uh justice and the empress for major arcana as well as the sun. The empress because it's it's ripe, it's growing, it's growth, it's it's all of that. So, I see the sun there a lot and also justice because as we were talking earlier, the sun can bring light to dark corners. You know, it can bring the truth out. But I'm happy that you said the 10 of cups because I feel the 10 of pentacles is a card. Yeah. It's being happy in your family. It's it's having grown your success. It's having grown your life. It's having grown things to a point where you have abundance and you have so many good things in your life. So, I like that. That's those two cards. I feel like balance each other. I So, I love that you picked that card. So, the spell with Sulis, pick a card that says the sun to you or just pick a random tarot card and journal in the morning. Take this card and do your journaling in the morning. And I'm going to suggest that you take a clear glass. Just take any clear glass and and fill it with water and place that in a window sill where it gets some sunlight. Preferably if the light can shine through it and like onto your paper. You know, if you can see kind of those wavy lines of the sunlight through the water on your paper. If you can't, don't freaking stress it. It's fine. But journal about that card. Journal about that sun and set your intention for the day that as the sun grows stronger in the sky throughout the day that the energy fueling this intention for your day will also grow stronger and just kind of journal that and then use that water to make your tea or to drink for the day. Put in your water bottle or whatever because it has now drawn in that energy of Sulus because she is the goddess of sunlight and water hot springs and also of bringing light to things. So if you write something to her, write about this card, journal about this card, journal your intention with the sunlight through water, you can get a little bit of that help of Sulis for your day. >> I love that. I'm definitely going to have to do a deep dive into Sulis. >> Doesn't she sound cool? Who doesn't like a goddess of a hotring? Right. >> Right. >> Another wonderful way to bring sun energy into your house is to set up prisms or to set crystals in your windows. Again, be very careful. make sure that they're not getting enough sunlight that you can accidentally set something on fire. But the idea of a prism or a crystal gathering that sun energy into one spot and then showing you what's inside, showing you all the different colors, you can use that in your magic. You can use that to bless your rooms by putting those in your in your windows to to draw that sunlight in and and let it scatter the solar energy, that solar magic throughout your space. I I'm just curious if there's other ways that folks out there pay homage to the sun, worship the sun, um utilize the sun in magic, because it is something that is kind of undertalked about. So, I'm curious to know if listeners have different ways that they perform their sun worship. I know one of the ways that I like to perform sun worship is going out and picking flowers. I know there's a lot of different herbs and flowers that have to do with sun magic and sun energy, but to be honest, almost any flower, in my personal opinion, any flower that I bring into the house feels like sun energy and sun magic to me. >> So, it doesn't have to be a sunflower. Is that what you're saying? >> Yep. That's what I'm saying. I do love a good sunflower, though. >> They are so pretty, but harder to grow. >> So, yeah. So, if you want to bring some of that energy into your life, bring in flowers. Bringing some flowers into your space to bring that sunlight in and bring in some crystals that remind you of the sun. Bring in a citrine. And as we've said with your moon water, if you start collecting sun water and you are not labeling this stuff, then you are just going to have to make one big batch of random sunwater for tea, for blessings, for offerings. And that's that's another thing I wanted to point out too is that sometimes with the sun, an offering of water or maybe that flower you picked or maybe that little dab of dandelion honey that you made. What better way to give thanks to the sun than leave out a dab of that dandelion honey from those dandelions that grew from the sun. Full circle moment. So, dandelion honey or any kind of honey, great offering for the sun and the sun gods. So, I guess we can bring it right back to that old cliche of stirring your intentions into your morning tea or coffee because now you can take the sun in the form of dandelion honey or honey. You can take your water warmed by the sun with the tea in it and then stir it deosil to bring your intentions in. And now you got the sun in your spell three times over. I love that. and you can take that power and that energy and whatever it is that your spell is doing, give it that extra amplifying boost. But with the good comes the bad. So, we definitely want to make sure to put on our sunscreen when we go outside to worship the sun and put our tools under it. >> There is balance in all things. And in solar magic, there's that balance, too. Use it for banishing. Use it for burning away things. Go ahead and take a magnifying glass and set the paper on fire that you've written down all the things you want to get rid of and turn it into a little mini bonfire of you need to get rid of and use the sun to power that. And you know, sun sun magic I just I I I just want to point out and wrap up with sun magic is great for this for a plethora of reasons, but you know, you always get those questions. I meant to do this ritual. I was told I had to do it on the full moon or when the moon was waning at 42° and I missed it. Do I have to wait a month to do it? No. Wait till the waning phase of the sun tomorrow. So when you think that you have to do a a spell or a ritual to certain phase of the moon and you miss that, when you panic, utilize that same phase the next day of the sun. So you can do magic any day, any night. It's not that you're not utilizing the energies, you just got to utilize different energies. You miss the moon energies, utilize the sun energies. >> I really love that. As someone who is terrible at remembering to do a spell at the exact right time, >> right? There's always tomorrow, man. >> Just do it tomorrow. Yeah. I miss the full moon by a week. And rather than wait, I'll uh I'll just do it at noon the next day. and and utilize that. I >> was going to say noon's tomorrow. >> That's right. There's going to be a noon tomorrow. And that's one of the things that I love about the sun and the moon and working with that energy is the sun always rises. The sun's going to rise tomorrow. And that is something that you can count on. So regardless of whether you see it as a deity, as whether you see it as a magical power in your life or not, >> or just a life force, >> it is a life force. It is a regular beautiful amazing life force that's going to come up tomorrow. You can always count on it. Sometimes that's all you need is to know the sun's going to rise tomorrow [music] and that can be enough >> if you if you literally take me back to 1983. I am going to start singing the sun will come out tomorrow by Annie. >> Oh gosh. Okay, we're going to end the episode here before that happens. I hope you all have enjoyed this episode of Back on the Broomstick. Please like, subscribe, give us some reviews, some stars. It really helps the show out [music] and it makes Shell and I cackle like little witches. >> Enjoy the sun, folks. And remember, this time between the spokes is a good time for you to get out, be out, [music] and be magical and keep it witchy.