Welcome to Back on the Broomstick, a modern witches spoken word grimoire, where two witchy friends from way back [music] are reconnecting to their pagan roots after a long period of mundanity. >> We're re-walking the path of the wise and trying out all the latest spells, rituals, and magical theory in today's witchcraft [music] and pagan practices. >> So, grab your wand and your incense, >> your cauldron and your [music] crystals, >> and join us as we get back on the broomstick. >> Hi, and welcome to Back on the Broomstick. I'm Leila, and on this episode, we're talking about the magic of travel. There's something deeply witchy about leaving your home, your bed, your normal routine, and stepping into a place where the land does not already know your name. Camping and travel pull us out of our everyday patterns. When we travel, we cross thresholds. We leave one energetic field to enter another. We sleep under different stars, wake up to different birds, and hear different trees in the wind. Travel is a natural time for magic, intuition, omens, connection, and a little bit of spiritual recalibration. The question is not only, "Can I be witchy while camping or traveling?" It's, "How do I do it in a way that is respectful, practical, and not so elaborate that I'm trying to cast a full ceremonial circle while someone three campsites over is yelling about their cooler?" >> And I'm Shell, and I am ever the adventurer traveler and the fanatic of camping. I have literally been camping since I was mere months old, and to this day, it is my favorite summertime activity. And the things we're going to talk about today are not necessarily just if you're going camping at a ritual or if you're going camping at a festival. These are things that that actually Leila and I do in every camping trip, even if we're just going with friends, down and kayak in the river, we're going on a ghostly overnight hunt. These are things that we do every time we leave the house overnight, not just festival or ritual camping. >> As someone else who is somewhat of a professional traveler, >> [laughter] >> I move a lot. My husband and I, we go to a lot of music festivals, we go to a lot of pagan festivals, and Shell, you and I have long bonded over our love of camping and being outdoors, being at festivals, and amongst the trees and with other witchy people. I mean, we just went on a little kayaking trip not too long ago. So, being outdoors, traveling, I guess. Not just being outdoors, cuz sometimes that involves being in a hotel room, and we'll talk about that, too. But, getting out of your normal space can be a very magical experience, and it can be a way for you not only to connect with a new land, a new place, but also kind of reconnect to new parts of yourself, as well. >> So, why? I guess that's going to be my first question. Why would I go on some rando kayaking camping trip and be witchy? So, let's let's kind of first address the the whys and the hows of this. Why would we be witchy while we are traveling, while we are out at a state park or a KOA or a Holiday Inn or a Marriott? Why are we doing these things, I guess, is is where we should begin. >> Well, for me, it's twofold. First one is because I'm a witch wherever I go, whether I'm on vacation or whether I'm at home in my normal life. And so, I feel better if I have witchy things around me. I like to have my tarot deck with me. I like to have a little travel altar. And the second reason is because the land and the spirits, the earth, and the energies around, they're different where you go. And you're you're basically stepping into a whole 'nother place that has its own energies, its own rhythms, its own spirits, and getting to know them and getting to work with them, being able to work with new energies and new places is part of the joy of being a witch. >> You know, I think for me it kind of started out back in the '90s as almost a paranoia thing. I was like, you know, I don't know what's on this land. I don't know what's roaming around here that I can't see. And it almost started out as like a protection, you know, I would set up an altar in my tent as a little keep me safe from whatever's lurking around cuz I am in unfamiliar territory. And it kind of evolved into paying homage to the land and giving back to the land and and doing that respectful connecting. In the beginning it started out as paranoia protection. >> I have to say some of the very first spells that I learned were warding my tent at music festivals. >> [laughter] >> Not just against other people, but you know, we are a little bit [ __ ] around and find out, which is we've camped in some scary places. >> Yeah. >> Not just setting up an altar inside our tent, but right down to setting up my tent facing the east so that when I climbed out, I was kind of starting anew and starting fresh and coming out of the tent. And also putting wards around the tent as well because you never know when Bigfoot's going to take an interest in your tent. You want to put up a couple wards, right? >> Seriously. And like And you know, and we're not talking anything like huge and spectacular. I I would pack stuff sometimes in a milk crate or in a little plastic tubby. And when I unpack all of that stuff for camping, you flip that thing over and all of the sudden, boom, tabletop altar. >> I love those. One thing that people like to do, and I don't get this, is the Altoid tin altars. First of all, Altoid tins are for your cannabis. And secondly, >> What am I What am I fitting in this? What am I I'm literally fitting into an Altoid tin? >> I think they're cute. I love seeing them. I think it's adorable how people are able to fit all sorts of miniature representations of things that they might want for spell work or for altar work or for offerings that they can put into a little Altoids tin, but man, I carry like a box and you have like a rolling tubby that you bring with you. >> I don't I don't pack that small. >> No, I don't think minimalist is in your vocabulary anywhere. >> I bring the basics and I look at it as not that much. You know, I bring some candles and I'll bring some incense and then I got to bring an incense burner, you know, I may bring a deity representation. I generally bring at least one represent representation for each of the quarters, you know, I may bring a feather and a shell and some dirt and, you know, an extra candle, but yeah, I mean, I kind of do go all out with a full-blown altar in the tent and when I'm packing for camping or and and we've done you and I have done this in a hotel as a matter of fact, I intentionally am packing altar tools or magic tools that I want with me in my travels, that I want set up in my temporary altar space because essentially, you know, this is temporary and offerings is another thing. I like to bring a little offering for the land or the space that I'm in to leave behind and keep that on the altar for the duration of my stay and leave it when I leave. >> We're talking a lot about things that we like to bring with us. We like to bring a little bit of our witchy selves with us, our altar tools, our magical tools. We like to bring that. A big part of camping magic is connecting to the space where we're at and we do that, too. So, I'm glad that you mentioned bringing offerings to the land because that's the second half of this. Not just bringing your witchy tools with you so you can still feel like your witch self, like your magical self, but also bring an open mind and bring the idea that you want to connect with the energies of this place because not only are you visiting that place to go camp there and enjoy the hiking or the kayaking or the waterfalls or whatever, you're going there to connect with the energies of that place. So, go with an open mind and a respectful mind. >> Especially, you know, if you are traveling extremely far and say you're going to an area that was owned by a different culture, be respectful of the customs of that area, of that land because that's important to not only be respectful of the land, but the culture that is built around that land. >> And that's a very good point. Just like when you go to a new place that maybe has a different culture than you, you listen. A big part of of traveling is listening and being respectful, paying attention to the nuances and the differences around you. It's the same with the land itself. Be respectful, pay attention, listen. Spend a little time opening your senses as you walk around. You know, if you're camping, Shell and I would walk around camping and not just look for a place that's going to be dry and safe from the elements, there's no deadfall around that's going to hurt us. Not just practical reasons, but when you walk around the place, open your mind, open your heart, open your magical senses and see what feels right, see what feels good, see what the energies of the place feel like to you before you set up camp. And then afterwards, do that again to find a spot where you can sit and set up maybe a a temporary land altar where maybe you set out your offerings or maybe you sit and journal in the morning and really open your senses to that land to pay attention and to listen because that's part of being respectful as well. >> I think tuning into the land, you know, even if you're not on this adventure for magical reasons, take even if it's 10 minutes, just take 10 minutes And have a conversation with the land. Go introduce yourself to the land. And the land will speak back to you. And I've been places where I feel like the land kind of told me how to honor it. It almost gave you that sense of what it was looking for. And that could be a honey offering, or that could be picking up garbage. I have actually had a conversation with land near where I'm from that literally was saying, "Please help." It was a garbage-filled land, and our actual local community did a adopt-a-highway and cleaned up some of that land. But have a conversation with the land. Talk to the land. Feel the land. Shoes off, toes in the dirt. You know, just take it all in. You know, look at the trees, listen to the birds, look at the sky. Pay attention to the things that you normally just pass by walking through. >> And that's such a good point, too, is really paying attention to the place. And sometimes the best thing to do is to to notice, but not pick it up. Like a lot of times people like to build those little stone Even I, when I talk about doing Elven chess and things like that, you have to be careful where you do those things, because you don't want to be disturbing insects' habitat or animal habitats or sensitive plants or anything like that. So, you want to make sure that anytime you do any type of a land painting or or play Elvish chess and make a little design out of fallen things on the ground. You don't want to break any branches or pick flowers or anything like that. >> Be respectful. >> And you want to make sure that anything that you're disturbing is something that would normally get disturbed. You know, little stones on the path or whatever, dead sticks that have fallen, flowers that have fallen, that type of thing. But you're not disturbing something that may be a habitat or have sensitive plants in the area. But again, that goes back to being respectful and paying attention and what does the land need? And my favorite thing that you said was picking up garbage cuz I have that here in my notes like big, it's bold, it's underlined [laughter] because I have found just like you when you ask the land what they want. What does What do you want? What would make you happy? Almost always I get back, "Pick up your [ __ ] Clean me." Right? And we were walking with Okay, I'm going to throw your love under the bus a tiny bit, just a tiny bit. We were walking outside. Now, he's a city boy. He's from the city and he's very used to being in the city and we were outside walking in this park and we visited this campground that was right on the river. And as we left, he absentmindedly dropped a cigarette butt. And I called him out on it and you called him out on it and and he hadn't even thought about it. Hadn't even connected. Now that he knows, he puts them in his pocket. It's no problem. But >> it's things like that that people don't think about. And again, city boy, he had never thought about that. Now he does and so sometimes we have to be taught to do better. So if you're not always the greatest, it's okay. We know better now. We can be better. Just do better. But that's what the land tends to ask for a lot of times. If I am ever doing a meditation in a in a new place, nine times out of 10 what I'm going to hear is, "Pack your [ __ ] out. Do better. Do better." Yeah, so so helping to clean land is a wonderful offering. >> I'm not saying that we're all dirty people, but it is nice to clean up other people's [ __ ] sometimes. So. >> Now, if you're a a traveler that does the hotel scene, you're thinking, you know, how would this be applicable to that atmosphere? And I'm honestly going to say the same thing. You know, I know you can't do incense and candles in a hotel room, but you can do battery-operated candles. And Layla and I have set up a nice altar in a hotel room, lit some candles. Sit, light your candles, set up your altar, and you can still connect with the spirit of the land. Maybe not the spirit of the Marriott, but the spirit OF THE LAND. >> [laughter] >> AND YOU KNOW, JUST KIND OF TALK to the land around the building, around the hotel, underneath the hotel, within, you know, a radius of the hotel. Kind of in your mind expand beyond those walls and create an atmosphere in your room that can kind of lead you down that path. Those hotels got some badass cable. Get on some, you know, nature music, do your battery candles, and you know, maybe instead of incense put on a nice perfume or something to kind of get you in that mindset to have that conversation with the land spirits around the hotel. >> Or the Marriott spirit. >> Or the Marriott. >> [laughter] >> I can't stop thinking. So, what would the Marriott spirit be like? Like, what offerings would you make to a Marriott [laughter] spirit? Like, would you have to give them a key card? >> and wipes? >> Hand sanitizer. Uh travel-size shampoo. So, yeah. Those face soaps that nobody uses cuz they're crappy, maybe that. >> I don't know. >> you Who uses the mini bar soaps? That's my question. >> I'm I'm not really sure. And now they have a lot of times they have those like large-size shampoos and stuff in >> Glued to the wall. >> Glued to the wall. And on the one hand I like those and on the other hand they kind of scare me a little, so I'm not sure. But uh I imagine a Marriott spirit would have a lot of stories to tell. >> Seriously, it'd be like sitting down with like your uncle that like just >> Who's a pervert? >> Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, >> [laughter] >> Anyway, um so yes, and you know, you'd be surprised how easy it is to connect to the spirits, even in a big city, the spirits of the land itself, and they do have interesting stories to tell. Now, I know we're talking about connecting to the land, and a lot of you out there are probably like, "What the heck does that mean? How? What do you mean connect to the land, and how do I do that if I'm on the 14th floor of a Marriott?" Well, do we have some ideas for you? >> And and I know not everybody can visualize, and I know that can be difficult for folks, but for me, this is where visualization kind of comes into play. >> Absolutely. >> I I visualize the walls around me falling down to the point where it's just me and the land. So, I kind of get that sense of the walls are nonexistent, you know what I'm saying, and it's just me and that land around me. Generally, when I'm doing this sort of thing, I'm generally thinking of maybe a 500-ft radius of where I am, and kind of connecting with those, because I'm new here. This isn't my permanent place. I'm just a temporary passerbyer, whether it be camping or hotel, you know, I don't need to know the whole greater valley. I just am generally looking around a 500-ft radius of kind of connecting with that spirit. >> And this is where I really like to do Shell's favorite visualization of the tree. A tree meditation, tree visualization is fabulous here. And that is where you just sit yourself down, find a nice comfy spot, whether you are in your camping site, or whether you're in your hotel, find a comfy spot, and pretend that you're a tree, basically. Find your center, do your breathing, imagine that your arms reach up like branches to the sky, and pull in beautiful sunlight energy to energize you, and help you to feel beautiful, and strong, and powerful, and growing. And then imagine your legs turning into roots, reaching way down through every single floor until you find that ground, and then even deeper into the dirt, down to the very bedrock itself, the oldest parts of the land that you're on. Then imagine that that energy from your roots kind of forms a circuit with the energy from your branches reaching to the sky. And now you're drawing energy in from the sky and up from your roots, and really connecting to that land, feeling what it felt, what it has felt through millennia. And just imagine that. Let those thoughts and feelings roll over you. Don't judge them. Just let them be. Maybe afterwards write them down in a journal, Shell. >> [laughter] >> The other one that I find that works really well for me is I'm glad that you mentioned the electricity and the cables and things in the building, because electricity sometimes is a way that I imagine energy. Energy, magical energy, physical energy, the energy we use to power spells, flows like water. It moves like electricity. And so sometimes it's easy for me to imagine myself like a bright light and going through those lines. I know that those electrical lines go through that whole building and ground themselves in the earth. And so following that, if I can allow my consciousness, my energy to trace the path of least resistance through those electrical wires, I can find the ground and I can touch the earth and I can touch the energy of that place where the building sits. So like Shell said, a lot of visualization. >> Yeah, and I think that, you know, if you are someone who has a very difficult time visualizing, I happen to be a cigarette smoker. I'm not condoning that by any stretch of the imagination, but I have found going outside, um usually they have a patio area or at least an area with a couple chairs or a bench, um and just literally feed on the ground and I just sit outside the hotel room and just kind of commune that way. So, if you are unable to do it from your room, if if visualization is difficult for you, you know, you can absolutely There's got to be a bench on the grounds of that hotel, I promise you. Go walk around, even if you're in the parking lot, and just kind of breathe the air and feel your footsteps on the ground, even if you can't get into dirt and you're just on pavement, still feel your feet on the ground. Feel your feet kind of penetrating through that pavement and into that soil. And even if you have to just go and lean up against a tree, you know, you don't want to go caressing a tree, people might look at you funny, but go lean up against a tree or go sit at the base of a tree and lean up against it. Something something like that would definitely be a good way to connect if you're unable to visualize in your in a hotel setting. >> I love the idea of a physical tree, not just the tree meditation, but most hotels have a tree on the grounds. Anywhere you go outside, well, not anywhere. If you go to a park or if you if you're camping, there's usually a tree there. And I often find that a tree itself, a tree is very often a guardian of a place, or at least a very powerful spirit of a place, if not the guardian. Uh, a lot like the tree at that cemetery we went to the other day. So, I do like to find, sometimes, what might be a guardian of the place or or very particular active spirit of the place. And that might be, again, usually a tree. Sometimes it can be a stone or a creek or a particular spot. Usually you can see it because there'll be a lot of growth there. There's a lot of plants, there's a lot of growth, the feeling it feels alive when you're in that area. And often think that might be the heart of the energy where the spirits of that place might have a special spot or where that energy is particularly active at the surface. And so, that's where I'll try to do my workings, or that might be the tree that I lean up against, or you know, maybe don't fondle, but sit with and hang out with and and try to maybe leave my offerings at that particular spot. >> So, I do feel that whether you're traveling as a camper or as a hotel hopper, you have the ability to connect with that temporary spirit of place, that land of place. And you know, I think it's something that a lot of people don't think about, and there's value in knowing the spirits of where you travel. If for nothing else than experience and and experiencing whatever that is, whether it's high energy, low energy, spooky energy, happy ever after energy, whatever that is, it's an experience that is definitely meant to be lived. >> As we're talking about leaving offerings and having gratitude for the space, part of that having gratitude and and being connected to that land and being respectful with it is also leaving things there. I talk about taking stones or taking sticks or taking acorns or things. Very often, I will ask, "Is this okay?" Ask the item itself, especially if I'm ever cutting herbs, which I don't do when I'm traveling, just at home, but if I'm cutting herbs and things, I will often ask permission. And I think we were talking to Amy Blackthorn, and she mentioned a time when she found this beautiful field of sunflowers right off the highway, and it was she had to stop, and she took a moment, connected with that space, connected with the spirits of that land, of those sunflowers, and said, "I would like to take one or two of you home with me, is that okay?" And they were all like, "Oh, no. Oh, heck, no." And she wasn't surprised at first, so she asked again and kept getting no. No, do not. And so she didn't, she left, and then she found out that that area, the land there was very, very contaminated, and there was a lot of bad contamination in the soil that had been pulled up through these sunflowers. And so that's why they had said, "No, don't pick us." because there was that contamination there. So asking permission before you take anything and being respectful of the answer that you get back, even if it's no, can be very important. >> It's very valuable for you to take the time. I try not to even break branches off a tree ever, but in the event that it were to happen, same thing. You know, ask permission and then kind of silence your mind for a moment and wait for that answer. It will come to you. >> The other thing, too, is leaving offerings. Make sure that it's something that's not going to hurt the land. Make sure it's something that's not going to draw wild animals into your camp because there's nothing like raccoons at night or ant infestation to ruin a great morning. >> [laughter] >> Yeah, and anything bigger, bears, depending on where you're camping, like, you know, obviously be thoughtful. And we've talked about this in the past. Sometimes my go-to, and it and camping-wise, it is definitely for safety reasons. I'll leave a little piece of cannabis, you know, maybe a little nugget or something somewhere because that is not going to get me eaten by any sort of animal. So that's generally going to always be my outdoor go-to because, you know, with honey, I'm afraid of fire ants. Cornmeal, I'm afraid of raccoons that could potentially eat the side of my tent. I've had a squirrel eat through my tent in the past. Bear, whatever. So I find that a nice little nugget of cannabis is a good outdoor offering. >> That's one of my favorites as well. I do like to go and share an intentional joint, especially in the morning, with a you know, I get up a little earlier when I'm camping. Seeing a camping sunrise is kind of a nice moment. And so sharing an herbal cannabis joint with that sunrise is a beautiful way to say thank you. But my two favorite go-tos are water. I'll leave a water offering at the tree or the place that I feel is where the energetic heart is of that space. And the second one is an actual thank you. Heartfelt thank you. Spend a moment with that place, send a little of my energy into that land and and feel that energy come back and make a little loop of energy where I deeply express gratitude and deeply say thank you to that space. And it can be hard sometimes to find what's a good thing to leave. Cannabis is a great thing to leave. A little bit of small herbs, dried herbs or something that's not going to bring a seed or whatever. Sometimes I don't know what the right thing to do is. So, just a little bit of dried cannabis, a little bit of water, and a sincere thank you is very often an excellent way to leave an offering. The other thing I like to do is something Shell and I both like to do. We've drawn little labyrinths and things in the ground, but drawing little sigils or back in our CCJ days, we would create beautiful artwork around like the fire pit maybe in the dirt around the fire, draw lines in that, use different colored sand or different clippings or leaves to make different colored shaded areas around the fire, and use that as part of an offering, make sigils in the dirt. >> I've actually even put sigils with water above doorways in hotel rooms, uh rewarded hotel rooms. I have been in places um in hotel facilities that just the whole land was just kind of blah and kind of did a circle walked a circle around the outside of the hotel before leaving and kind of did almost like my own little private land blessing to almost I don't want to say like give it a little first aid, but almost kind of the equivalent of give it a little bit of first aid, you know, do some some triage before I leave. >> I like that. I like that a lot actually. >> Some land triage care, you know. >> I do know that there are festivals. There are a couple festivals. I think Dragon Fest might be one of them. I'm not sure. I know there's a couple festivals where the land is reclaimed land that is being healed and cleansed and part of the festival itself is aimed towards helping to re-energize and re-cleanse and reclaim that land. >> I love that. >> Well, speaking of festivals. >> It is almost festival season. >> We do have quite a few coming up this year including some that Shell and I are presenting at including many one Crystal City Circle might be putting on. But we're going to give you a couple festivals that are coming up soon starting with one in June and we will put information about this on our website as well so that you can find it. But the next one that's coming up is called Morgan's Call well one of the next ones that's coming up is Morgan's Call Retreat. >> This one's in Connecticut. >> This one is June 5th to 7th. Again, we'll put up a link to their website and is a fully inclusive weekend of devotional work, workshops, rituals, and kinship in honor of the great queen. >> I've never been to this one but I would totally be digging it. I this is one I want to put on my list of places to go absolutely. >> One of the next ones is Starwood Festival July 14th to 20th and Starwood Festival is in Pomeroy, Ohio and that is taking place this year July 14th through 20th. Now, I've been to Starwood before and it is definitely a good time but not at the Ohio location where it has been for quite a while now. They have workshops and drum circles absolutely amazing time. >> The next festival we got is Sankofa July 17th, 18th, and 19th. This is held out in Sherman, New York at the Brushwood Folklore Center. This is a favorite of Layla and mine. This particular festival is a 2 and 1/2 {slash} 3-day lead-up to the next festival, which starts the 20th of July, and that is Sirius Rising. Again, Brushwood Folklore Center in Sherman, New York. One thing I want to point out about Sankofa and Sirius Rising this year is Layla and I are both presenters. So, we will be there. We will be having a blast. And if you are looking for a good time and some great workshops, come out to Sirius and Sankofa. >> Sirius Rising is July 20th to 26th, and this one is workshops, rituals, and ceremonies, gatherings, music, dance, parties, labyrinth, radio shows, which we will also be doing. It is so much more than just a festival. There's family, friends. It is an absolute wonderful good time. So, we will be there this year. It is going to be amazing. We'll put links to all of these festivals up. This is just a few of the many that are going on across the country this summer. >> And don't forget wherever you are, hop on the old Google or the old Facebook and search local Pagan Pride festivals in your area. You are generally going to find Pagan Pride events happening anywhere between the beginning of August and the end of September. So, check your local area for your local Pagan Pride event. >> And we want to say thank you to everyone who has sent in cards. And thanks for Shell's birthday coming up of this month. Thank you so much. You guys are so sweet to my bestie. >> Thanks, guys, for the birthday cards. >> That's awesome. If you would like to send us anything, items for review, items for Shell and I to talk about on the podcast, or just a card or a postcard to say thank you or to say happy birthday to Shell, it is Back on the Broomstick, P.O. Box 21, Tioga, Pennsylvania, 16946. >> Also, get us on our socials. We're on the Instagram, we're on the Facebook. Uh you can get us on the internet, on the website, back on the broomstick on all platforms. We're on the YouTube, the Spotify, the Apple Music. Give us a check out, give us some likes, give us some stars, give us a review. We'd love it. Thank you. We appreciate you guys. >> And another big huge thank you to all of our benefactors. This show would not be here without you. Thank you guys so much. We very much appreciate it. If you'd like to be a benefactor, check out our website back on the broomstick.com. And what else can you check out there, Shell? >> Guess what, guys? So, we have a new store. We have transitioned our store over to our website back on the broomstick.com. We have new products. We have some limited edition stuff. And drum roll, please. Layla and I are offering tarot readings. So, if you are interested in a tarot reading, you want to know the path you're leading, where is it going to take you? You got some questions, you need some answers. Layla and I are here to help. So, check out back on the broomstick.com, the new store, tarot offerings, and we're super excited and we hope you guys are, too. >> And before we go, one last thing before we head off into the sunset to find our next camping spot. We have coming up a new collaboration with one of our absolute favorite of all time, Witchy Shops. >> This is exciting, guys. Like, I was squealing. I'm not going to lie. >> Now, you guys know us. We don't do commercials. We are not big on corporate sponsorships. We are very, very picky about who we put on the show. And [music] holy cow, are we excited to bring you this collaboration. >> This is going to be a banger, guys. So, stay tuned because even I can't contain myself. >> We are so excited to bring this to you guys. There's going to be discounts, [music] there's going to be giveaways, there's going to be great reviews, there's going to be all sorts of wonderful things coming [music] up. So, thank you again for listening to this episode of Back on the Broomstick. Please like, subscribe, give us some reviews, give us some stars, tell a friend, tell a co-worker, tell another witch all about Back on the Broomstick. >> Stay wise, stay wicked. >> And [music] keep it witchy.