Welcome to Back on the Broomstick, a modern witches' spoken word grimoire, where two witchy friends from way back are reconnecting to their pagan roots after a long period of mundanity. We're rewalking the path of the wise and trying out all the latest spells, rituals, and magical theory in today's witchcraft and pagan practices. So grab your wand and your incense, your cauldron and your crystals, and join us as we get back on the broomstick.

Laylla: Hi, and welcome to Back on the Broomstick. I'm Laylla, and on this episode, we're joined by Irene Glasse, a witch, author, musician, pagan clergy, and professional herder of spiritual squirrels. Irene's work lives at the crossroads of practical witchcraft, mysticism, spirit work, community care, and inclusive Heathenry. She's the co-author of Foundations of Witchcraft, a Blackfeather Mystery School training manual, and she brings over 20 years of experience in teaching, ritual, clergy work, tarot, trance, and helping witches build a practice that is both deeply rooted and personally alive.

Chelle: And I'm Chelle, and I'm so excited to have Irene here today. And I first met Irene at the Sacred Space Conference, which she is on the board of. She's also in a band called Kindred Crow, which is an awesome, awesome Heathen pagan group. I mean, this this woman does so many things. She takes trips around the world with her groups. You know, all of all of her her folks in Maryland, you know, they follow her at the UU, they go to festivals to watch her, they they get her online to to hear her classes. She is an absolute pagan powerhouse.

Laylla: She is one of our favorite, favorite pagan people, and not just because she is part of the board of one of our favorite pagan festivals, Sacred Space, but she's just all around a very cool person. And I really want to know how she does all these things. She's just everywhere. She's got so much going on. I mean, I have this podcast and a pagan community and family going on. I feel like I've got too much going on sometimes. I think my main question for her is going to be, how the heck do you do it all?

Chelle: I think she's got some time magic because she's definitely cranking out more than 24 hours in a day. So, without further ado, because her time is short, let's bring on Irene Glasse.

Laylla: Welcome, Irene.

Irene: Oh my gosh, thank you so much. I'm so grateful, and I'm excited to get a chance to sit and talk with you as well.

Laylla: Well, thank you for fitting us into your very busy schedule. And the big reason that we're having you on now is to celebrate an upcoming book that you have co-authored. Why don't you tell us a little bit about the book and what brought you to become an author?

Irene: Sure thing. So, I think the best way to describe myself is as a teacher of witchcraft. I've taught witchcraft for, oh gosh, over 20 years now. And the book is the out-growth of a mystery school that my friend Caine and I have been running in Frederick, Maryland since 2019. And I think we all remember what happened shortly after 2019, which was 2020. And we had to abruptly pivot our class series to go online, which meant that we ended up shifting the school a bit so that it was more friendly to distance learners because we were all distance learners then. So, we went ahead and took the classes, and I began putting them together into a manuscript, and that's where the book came from. So, what you have when you pick up a copy of Foundations of Witchcraft is a year-long mystery school in a format that supports distance learning.

Chelle: I love that. The book itself is literally an outgrowth of your actual teachings, of your actual year-long school.

Irene: That's right. And even the chapters are presented in that way, in that Caine and I have different voices when we are writing. And so, at the beginning of each chapter is like, "This chapter will take X amount of time to go through. Here are the supplies that you need. Your instructor is Irene," or "Your instructor is Caine."

Laylla: Is that Caine that wrote those?

Irene: Yep, exactly. Caine Dreamwalker is my my co-author. And so, then you go through that class, and they're designed to stack. When we teach the course, when we originally taught it, it was every other week. And so, the chapters basically follow that format. We have, of course, expanded it and changed it a little bit with the idea that Caine and I aren't always necessarily there to answer questions right away. We try to be as available as possible online, but we recognize that people really will be rolling through this totally independently. So, it's designed to take you through a full year of extremely well-grounded, responsible, effective witchcraft training. It's the school we wish we'd gone to. Like, I feel like a lot of teachers were basically like, "Look, I needed help when I was 15, so I'm writing the fucking book myself." That's the school. It's the one I wish I'd had.

Chelle: I think what's great about that, Irene, is that you are such a strong force in the Mid-Atlantic, in in Frederickburg. And this kind of forced you to spread your wings and your knowledge to people all across the world, and not just in your little corner of the earth. And now everybody can benefit through the classes, and now through the books.

Irene: Yep, no pressure. No, I mean, I one of the big things in terms of of writing it and getting it sort of sent off in a manuscript was just that moment of terrifying nausea of, "If I'm not in the room, is it the same?" You know, "Does my work stand on its own without me being present there?" And the people who've worked through things on a distance level, it seems to be effective. So, it's both terrifying and also I'm really proud of that body of work.

Laylla: Some of the best things I have found, how's the saying go, are on the other side of fear.

Irene: Yeah, on the other side of your comfort zone, absolutely.

Laylla: Exactly. So, that's fantastic. Well, thank you for facing that fear for us. I'm very excited for this book. Now, that's coming out in August of this year. Now, you mentioned that you have been practicing for a couple decades. You've been teaching for a couple decades. Now, can you tell us a little bit about your history? And and I know in your what caught my eye and Chelle's eye a little bit was you had mentioned you had started in Wicca. And and we did too, and and we outgrew that. We we we found things that fit better, but we do still say we have Wiccan DNA because it is still it does still inform some of our practice and some of our our our systems. Can you tell us a little bit about your history and how you moved away from that?

Irene: Absolutely. No, I I would be happy to. And I think one thing that is interesting about the idea of DNA and structure is that part of the Blackfeather system is structured on the idea of a comprehensive religious and witchcraft education, which I got in the system of Wicca that I was in. And I think the big thing that I that I wanted to take from Wicca was that full breadth of knowledge, that way of really becoming so grounded in the practice of witchcraft, but without some of the limitations. And so, that really is where, you know, that's one of the the deep taproots that Blackfeather has is this this grounding in Wicca. I I refer to myself as classically trained, vocally and magically. I started in opera, started in Wicca, got real fucking weird with it, both both ends. But the training's there. No, um I I began, as most of us did in the '90s, with a book. Like, it was that was real like I was part of that time period where, you know, I think every single one of us started like with Uncle Bucky's Big Blue Book of Witchcraft. Right, like we all did it. So, uh when I really began to get more serious was actually after I got back from the military, and I became involved with the Tradition of the Witches' Circle, which is a Wiccan tradition that is based in Occoquan, Virginia. And I was involved in that system for years. I taught out of it. Um I took three cohorts, I think, all the way through to High Priest. Uh so, which was it was a three a three-level tradition. Right. And and eventually, I just drifted and kind of grew out of it and needed something different. I began to not love some of the choices of the required texts. I'm a big nerd, so um when we're talking about history, I have a a deep anchor in terms of like, "I need this to be accurate and stand on its own," as opposed to flinking. Right, like all of the things. And TWC is an amazing system. It's it's still alive and well. It is a fantastic tradition of witchcraft. Um and also, I just eventually moved on, and I think that's okay. You know, I think well, most of us, my my lived experience is that almost every witch I talk to has been like six or seven different things over the course of their magical career.

Chelle: It's called evolution. Yes.

Laylla: Yes, as we grow and learn, you know, we add these, we shed things. It's it's part of life. I love it.

Irene: Well, and then we find shiny things and we need to fit it in our basket somewhere, right? Like, we collect sparkly bits in the universe and it's got to go somewhere.

Laylla: Yeah. Yeah, I know that feeling.

Chelle: Is that what led you to to coming to Heathenry? Is is kind of being not as connected to that tradition and being pulled away a little bit?

Irene: No, I think I I actually moved into more of, we could call it like an eclectic seeking place, where I was beginning to study under different teachers and read more books and experiment on my own and do a lot of fucking and finding out, right? Like, that entire world of um of being a spiritual seeker. Uh I've had the pleasure of studying under a lot of people. What really happened with Heathenry uh is that the Norse gods kidnapped me and I woke up in an alley covered in amber.

Chelle: How do they do that? Wow.

Irene: They're known for it, as it turns out, so.

Laylla: Surprise!

Irene: Exactly. I wouldn't necessarily say that was like voluntary, exactly, but it's definitely what happened.

Laylla: We might need to talk at some point because I'm having the same feeling. All right, but okay, so you were kidnapped. Okay, so they kidnapped you, stuck you in an alley. How'd you get back out?

Irene: I cooperated. Um no, I uh to briefly get very serious, I was in a really fucked up marriage for a long time. I was with my abuser for 14 years, and at the very end of that, um I had a weird experience at Sacred Space Conference, believe it or not, which is a conference I now sit on the board of. Sacred Space Conference, of course, brings magical adepts together, right? It's intermediate to advanced, so you're going to get some pretty wild shit that happens there, even off sides. And this is what happened. I was in a class, there was a man in front of me I did not know, and he kept turning around and looking at me, and turning around and looking at me, and turning around looking at me. And finally, after the class, he came up to speak to me, and I was like, "Oh fuck, here we go," you know? Instead, he said, "Are you trying to get pregnant or have a baby?" And no one in the room knew that. I had fallen into that trap of, "If I give my abuser a child, then perhaps things will be okay." And I had just like made the appointment to have my IUD removed. Uh and I said, "Yes." And he said, "Freyja says there's going to be trouble." I just broke out in chills over my whole body. Yes. So, then I started seeing her in visions, and she was right, there was trouble. You know, I got out, and she's part of how I got out. But to this day, she's the only deity I know of who's tried to save me, and tried to save me from me. And what's wild is I now know four other people who are oathed to Freyja who came to her the same way. Like, she she's got a thing in her contemporary practice where sometimes when it's really bad, she comes and gets you. She came and got me. So, I joke that I was kidnapped, but the truth is that I got rescued.

Laylla: Rescued. Yeah. Yeah, they came and took they took you right out. That's amazing.

Irene: Exactly. So, I became Heathen, and as it turns out, a lot of the the beautiful pieces of Heathenry as a religious practice and as a community practice, it's a religion that's built around community, serves me so well. I've been a community organizer for decades now, and my greatest joy is bringing groups of pagans together. I am, you know, that is one of my huge areas of service, and this is this is a religious form that suits me down to the ground. And I would never have chosen it. I have no Scandinavian DNA at all. We're Irish. You know? If we were going by ancestry, I should be worshipping the Morrigan, but I don't. So, you know, that's the the Norse gods came and got me.

Laylla: And sometimes that's what happens. And I think part of this practice is being open to those experiences and being open to that and and knowing knowing the difference. Sometimes it can be difficult to know when you're just going down a rabbit hole for whatever reason and knowing when these experiences happen. And I know that part of your your practice is in mysticism and is in some of those experiences. Because one of the biggest questions that we get with people is, say they're they're like, "Oh, I think Freyja's reaching out to me," or "I think someone is reaching out to me." How do I know that that this is truly an experience versus this is something that I just want to have happen or or I just think is happening? And is there some way that you can you can differentiate the two?

Irene: Absolutely. So, I love this question. I have an entire class on like deities and discernment and managing mystical messages, right? Like, I love this body of work. So, some of this is a bit of a know thyself. If you start having mystical experiences, one of the best and most useful things you can do is develop a meditative practice now. Yes. The reason for that is that you need to know the texture of your own thoughts. You need to know the voices that are part of your internal landscape. And I'm not going to make anybody sit down on a meditation cushion. Like, there are 10,000 forms of meditation. I tend to do movement meditation. I'm a yogi, I'm a labyrinth walker, I like to move and because I have fidget energy, right? So, seated meditation is more challenging for me. But this practice of being familiar with your inner landscape means that when something comes in that is not part of it, you can recognize it more effectively. Along with that, divination is your best fucking friend here. Like, you know, it's it's a wonderful way to use a discerning, magical practice that is less likely to be warped by personal desires. And I'm a big fan of also then reaching out to my witchy friends, and without giving context, going, "Hey, give me an up-down meditation on" or "an up-down divination on this," right? Like, just I need a I need a a card drawn.

Laylla: Clarifier.

Irene: Clarifier. "Can you draw me a card? Can you draw me a rune? You know, what do the ogham say about this?" And it's a wonderful way to then add a layer where we are sort of moving even outside ourselves to get confirmation. And then, of course, the last one is watch for omens. Um if the gods are reaching for you, they're just going to be consistent about that shit, right? Like, they're There's Until they just start hitting you. Yes. Uh my my late master used to say that the universe whispers and then it speaks and then it hits you in the head, and we want to avoid that hit. So, watch for omens. Learn about the deities or spirits that are contacting you because chances are you're going to start seeing more than one thing. So, I live in a region where hawks are present. I've seen them all the time, but they started doing really weird shit when I realized that I was starting to get contact from Freyja. She's associated with falcons. And so, it started being, you know, not just the normal thing of driving along the highway in Maryland, you see hawks off to the side, and instead, a couple experiences where there was a very near miss with a red-shouldered hawk, right, where it would like dive-bomb the car. Or, you know, I was out in my yard and had one circle overhead, calling loudly, like three circles directly over me and then took off. Just these odd moments of, "Okay, that's that's that's strange." Right. There's beyond coincidence. Exactly. You know, there's normal what I always what I always tell my students is with an omen, you're looking for behavior that is out of ordinary for that species. So, you know, obviously, if a squirrel's in your yard in Maryland, okay, that's fine. But if that squirrel comes up to you, sits down, makes eye contact for 20 seconds and then walks away, that might be worth looking a little bit more deeply into. So, look for that kind of thing, but with the the avatars and symbols of the spirits that you're learning about. And the combination of divination, deep reflection, meditation, self-knowledge, and then omen seeking tends to be a really nice net for getting a pretty clear picture. And then the other thing I'll just say is that the gods are effectively immortal. You don't have to race. I think a lot of times people feel like they're in a time-pressured situation to respond to the spirits. Y'all, they don't have bodies. Take your time, right? Learn, breathe. You know, it it doesn't have to feel quite so so pressured and so dangerous.

Chelle: We don't need to know all of the things right now.

Irene: You don't have to have all the answers right now. You do not have to quit your day job in order to read the Norse myths. Go through the process. And honestly, some of that learning process and being willing to take it at a more responsible pace will also tell you whether this is right for you. Because a flash of excitement and the dopamine that it causes, that goes quickly. A deeper attachment, it won't go away. I, you know, I find myself circling back to Freyja and doing work in her honor and reading her stories and thinking about her, whether I want to or not, and we're 12 years in now. So, that's part of how you know that's the one for you.

Laylla: Thank you for that answer because one of the things that we talk about is the I liked how you said learn to know the texture of your own thoughts. And I think learning to know yourself, isn't that one of the tenets, know thyself? It's very important. But knowing the texture of your own thoughts, I love how you put that because we talk about how it feels different. You know, you know your own voice, your own worries. When when you get a repeated thought over and over in your head, you can say, "Oh, that's my voice." It feels different when it's someone else's voice. And so, I I liked how you put that, and you explained that in a very easy-to-understand way. So, I think that's going to help a lot. Thank you.

Irene: Yeah, no, my pleasure. It's I always, you know, I always fall back on the fact that we all have multiple selves inside of us all the time, right? We have to learn who all those voices are. Otherwise, otherwise, sometimes you're dealing with a shadow that's just wearing an anonymous mask because it can, because it wants your attention. So, it's it's that vital piece, you know, self-knowledge.

Chelle: It's knowing how to filter those voices.

Irene: Yes.

Laylla: Okay, so now I'm going to also jump back to Sacred Space because that is where we first met you. Okay, actually, I'm going to take a slight left turn because we did first meet you there, but we have a connection that you might not know about. We are like two degrees of Kevin Bacon apart from each other. '90s people will know what I'm talking about. There's a couple festivals that that you are part of, Rights of Spring and Twilight Covening, which sadly I have not yet gone to, but one of these years.

Irene: Oh, you got to go. It's so good. You got to go. It's so good.

Laylla: It's so We have people from our old community We know people you know. We know people you know that have gone there for years and years and years, and how wonderful that place is and just what amazing community and magic happens on the mountain. And so, I think it's really fun that we have that kind of little bit of connection. So, before okay, before we dive into Sacred Space, can you just tell us a little bit about community and magic and being at festivals like that?

Irene: Absolutely. Hey, did you want to know about Twilight Covening in particular or just community work?

Laylla: Maybe, yeah, if you don't mind talk- if that's okay to talk about, because I freaking love those. Just the whole idea of it and everything, it's just fantastic.

Irene: You know, if there's one event, I don't push events super hard with people, um, just because there are so many and they're- most of them are wonderful, right? Like, and they're run by incredible people. And I am absolutely the most ridiculous proselytizer for Twilight Covening. And, this year upcoming, God's willing, uh, will be my 17th with them. I have not missed a year since I began. So, Twilight Covening is not a festival. Uh, it's not a big, a big party in the woods. There are no vendors. There are no bands. What it is, is a pagan retreat. You get four days of solid ritual magical work. And when you get there, beforehand, you are, you choose a specific course of study or focus, right? And these are called clans. They max out at about 16 people. They're small by design. They are led by clan leaders. So, I am a clan leader now. I went for 10 years before I changed sides, uh, and am sort of on the other side of that veil now. And you, you do the work, and you can go so far in four days with no distractions, with the support of really wonderful practitioners, with a small group that's like, slightly coven-sized, of people who are doing the exact same work with you. It is extraordinary. And it's, I think we just passed 40 years this past year. Twilight has been running for a long time. Earth Spirit is one of the longest-running pagan organizations in the country. And they're extra- they're amazing. I love being one of their southern cousins, you know? Like, that's, they are part of my family. They've been part of what shaped my practice. Twilight Covening is one of those events that will change you. It has changed me. It's how I became involved with Unitarian Universalism. I am a commissioned lay minister in that tradition, and that is because I went to a labyrinth clan at Twilight my first year. Like, all of that comes back around to Twilight fairly regularly. So, including some of my Heathenry. I've taken Heathen clans there, which then influenced a lot of my own spiritual growth. It is extraordinary. So, if you're able to get to Massachusetts in October, gosh, I recommend it. It's, it's really something. I have not encountered anything like it anywhere else in the witchcraft world. I've been a community leader for a long time. I go to a lot of events. I have never seen anything else like it. It's, it is extraordinary.

Laylla: If nothing else, go to the Earth Spirit website, take a look at the Twilight Covening, and just look at the clans and drool. Just drool over all of the offerings.

Irene: They'll basically leave the last year's clans listed until the new ones go up, so you can see what we all did last year. And some clans happen year after year, some are on a wider rotation than that. You'll see them every three or four years, every five or six. But it, it's really, it is really special.

Chelle: You know, speaking of extraordinary events, I just want to just real quickly, and I don't want to harp on this and sound like a fangirl, but Laylla and I have gone to Sacred Space several times. We've presented there several times. And I've got to say, and we've said this in, in previous episodes specifically talking about Sacred Space...

Irene: And you.

Chelle: ...as a board member, thank you for what you do, because people get leery about, "I'm going to an indoor thing at a hotel. This is weird. I don't know if I want to do this. I should be out in the woods." What you folks do down in Maryland is top-notch, and it, you don't feel like you're in a hotel. You don't feel like you're in the confines of this mundane space, and you guys really create a very, very wonderful experience for folks. So, I just wanted to say thank you for that.

Irene: Oh, thank you. No, it, Sacred Space is another one where I attended for a solid decade before I was invited to join the board. It's such a good conference. And I, I am invited to join pagan organizations fairly regularly. I, I do very few, um, and Sacred Space is one of the very few that I accepted because it is so high quality. My experience of it was so good. I think, particularly for those of us who have been practicing for a long time, finding a place where literally everything is intermediate to advanced. I could go to any class there and learn something.

Chelle: Learn. Yes.

Irene: Wonderful. You know, a Wicca 101 has its place. I teach beginning witchcraft classes. We all start somewhere. But man, when you're like 30 years in, it's so nice to have someone rock your world. Like, and that happens to me every year at Sacred Space. It's mind-blown.

Chelle: That happens every year at Sacred Space. We, we come back and we talk, we're like, "This festival, I took notes in every class, like every single class."

Irene: So, before I joined the board, I used to run like a black market notes ring for Sacred Space. Because I'm a really good note-taker.

Chelle: Can we get in on this?

Irene: Well, what's cool is technology's kind of moved along as well. So, like now, a lot of our teachers will, we use, um, the Sched app, will upload their notes to that or make them otherwise available. Like, there's ways around it. But, you know, back in the early, mid-2000s, it was a little bit different. And so, I would team up with a few other people, and we'd divide the schedule, go to those classes, and then like, write up notes and sell them.

Chelle: Were you watching Laylla and I last year? Because we kind of did that. We're like, "All right, so you go to this one upstairs, I'll go to this one downstairs. We'll cover more ground."

Laylla: It's just so good. It is so good. Literally, every single class, every ritual, every, everybody just getting together in the hallway is amazing. It's just such, such a good place, such good energy there.

Chelle: And another thing I wanted to mention is another highlight is it is capped off at the end by a very awesome party costume ball, which you and your band happen to be the highlights of. Talk about Kindred Crow for a second. Tell us, tell us about the band. How did this come together?

Irene: Sure thing. So, uh, Kindred Crow is my third band. I'm a musician. Uh, I was raised in an artistic family.

Chelle: In your spare time.

Irene: Right? Yeah. So, um, my family resupplies the arts, I think. You know how some families are like football families? We're an arts family. My sister is a professional actress in DC. Uh, my parents met in a theatrical production. They were in a band together themselves. And, uh, Kindred Crow is band number three for me. I was in Rebel Moon first, which was a, a folk band that had a lot of pagan leanings. I was then in Cassandra Syndrome when I was in my like, angry phase. That was a heavy metal band.

Chelle: I love that name.

Irene: I mean, it had, it, like if you were paying attention, it was super fucking pagan, but we didn't like, market it that way. And then, when I blew my life up in 2014, my partner and I were in Cassandra Syndrome together. And afterwards, we were talking about, you know, did we want to do another band? And what we were talking about is, what did we love the most? And what we loved the most was when we got to go play a pagan festival and play a set, and then go play drums at the bonfire that night, and then pass out drunk in a tent. Like, we loved that part. So, Kindred Crow was consciously designed to be a magical musical project for pagan festivals and events. That's all we do. I'm not trying to make it big with this band. I did that with the metal band, I almost gave myself an ulcer. This is totally for fun. Um, so, and of course, in one of those ridiculous twists of fate, Kindred Crow is vastly more successful. The one where I was like, "Fucking, I'm going to play the music I want to play." That's the one. That's the one that works.

Chelle: As it should be.

Irene: So, we're coming up on, I think, 10 years together in November. We've got, uh, oh gosh, there's one full album out, and then there's, I think, three-quarters of another album that have been, those tracks are being released individually. We're acoustic music, and we are very magical. So, you're going to hear themes of mythology and spellcrafting and mystical experiences. Uh, it's a lot of fun. It's all acoustic instruments. There's lots of drums. Uh, I have a very high singing voice, and then the band is co-fronted by an alto, so you get this sort of beautiful, almost Indigo Girls-y sometimes, sound, a little bit higher. And it's just, I don't know, it's just a ton of fun. I love playing music with my crow family. It's a blast. And we've had such a good time.

Chelle: You guys are great, by the way.

Irene: Oh my gosh, thank you. No, we have so much fun. We've gotten to play a lot of fairy festivals and just a ton of pagan festivals. We just got back from Rites of Spring, uh, up in Massachusetts, which is another Earth Spirit event. So, the band played there a couple weeks ago. It's so fun. We love playing.

Laylla: You can tell. I've had the pleasure of being at two performances of Kindred Crow, and you guys are a lot of fun, and you are magical, and it's, it's just good.

Chelle: You have to dance. You have to dance. That's all I can say.

Laylla: You can't help it, and you can feel the energy. It's one of those things where you can tell that there's magic in the air when Kindred Crow is playing.

Irene: Very intentional about it. Absolutely.

Laylla: Now, is there a way that people can listen to you? Can they find you on YouTube and...?

Irene: Yes, absolutely. You can find us on all of the streaming services. We don't really do physical albums anymore, um, just because it's become so unnecessary. Like, we still have CDs of the first one that you can buy if you want. But what I'd recommend is, you know, hop on your favorite streaming service. It's all there. We're distributed across basically all of the platforms. And come to a show. Um, I think that the recorded material's fine, but the magic of Kindred Crow is being there. Like, that's when it's a blast. It's when it's all of, all of us magical people blowing the roof off of a venue. That's when it's really fun.

Laylla: And all that sharing that energy.

Irene: Yes. Yes.

Chelle: We, we can say that we totally agree with you, having known.

Laylla: So, we'll put links so that you can find some of our favorite songs down in the show notes, so you'll be able to check that out. Now, you're pagan clergy. You are also a minister at the Fredericks, um, the Fredericksburg, sorry, Frederick, Frederick Cups.

Irene: There's Frederick, Maryland, and then Fredericksburg, Virginia, and they're reasonably close to each other. It happens all the time. But I am a commissioned lay minister at the Unitarian Universalist Congregation of Frederick. So, and that's in Western Maryland.

Laylla: Very nice. Now, our community has recently, uh, we started a community about a year ago, um, in the Southern Tier of New York, and that has been absolutely phenomenal. We are loving every second of it. And I have to say that I want to give a shout-out to Unitarian Universalist churches, because these guys are always amazing. And the, the Unitarian Universalist Church of Big Flats in our area has been wonderful. We do not have a CUUPS chapter here, but they work with us. They work with everybody. They're just really great people. If you have a UU church in your area, they are a great resource. They're wonderful. So, I definitely want to give a shout-out to them. But can you tell us a little bit about, uh, being, uh, clergy with the UU and, and about CUUPS a little bit?

Irene: So, I was clergy before I became involved with the Unitarian Universalist congregation. I was ordained back in 2003. So, I've been pagan clergy for a very long time. Um, I got involved with the Frederick UU, I think it was 2016 or so. No, 2008. It's all starting to blur together.

Chelle: It's a blur.

Irene: Exactly. Well, the, the longer the time frame gets, like, "How fuck long have I been here?" No, I, I first got involved because they had an on-site labyrinth, and I wanted to walk it. And one of the beautiful things about UUs, Unitarian Universalists are, for those folks who are listening who don't know this, Unitarian Universalism is a religion that is based on shared values rather than shared beliefs, with the idea that we can love alike even if we don't believe alike. So, you can have the same values and priorities as a Buddhist, as a Muslim, as an atheist, as a Christian, and it brings all of us together under those premises. And it's just a really glorious way of being part of a community. It's all of the good church, like the good bits of church without the bad bits, you know? It's incredible. So, I started to get involved, and one of the funny things about Unitarian Universalists, at least my experience of them and, and the, the lived experience of, of many others, is that they'll notice what you love doing and go, "Oh, would you like to do more of that? Here are some resources and some space." So, I began to quietly get involved. They found out that I was pagan, and then we had a little proto-CUUPS chapter, and the leadership got in touch, like, "Hey, do you want to join the board?" you know? And so, there's just this beautiful openness and invitation to, "Would you like to build community with us?" And so, that's basically how I really got involved with the UUs. I ended up inheriting the CUUPS chapter in Frederick and improving its communication techniques, getting it more organized. I'm the daughter of like, a master logistician. Like, my mother is incredible. If you want to invade another country, you want her to do the logistics. So, I'm really good at organizing people and things. By the time I got involved with the Frederick UU, I'd already run pagan festivals for a long time. Like, I, I was in it. So, I'm, I'm really good at that side of things. So, I basically took something that was already wonderful, made it more organized and easy to find, and then, of course, it got much larger. So, midway along that journey, uh, one of the, the wonderful elders in my community, a woman named Sea Raven Mors, um, approached me, was like, "Hey, you know, there's actually a word within Universalism for what you do. It's called lay minister. Would you like to go to the training?" And it was wonderful because it filled some gaps that I didn't have from my background in Wicca. Um, one of the holes that, uh, that later years of Blackfeather address is the piece where, at the time when I was coming up through Wicca, we didn't have a whole lot of generations who had died. Right? I mean, it's that funny thing where we're still quite young. So, I was very good at ritual, very good at spells, know my correspondences, but I didn't know how to do pastoral counseling or how to sit with someone when they're dying. I didn't know how to be in a room when a child was being born. I didn't know how to moderate a conversation between two people who were angry at each other. And what I will give the UU training is that it had all of those pieces. So, I did, um, the lay ministry training through the Unitarian Universalist Association, which fills in a lot of gaps. It's basically designed for people who are already congregational leaders, and it gives them more skill sets. It was wonderful, and it was really, really great to have some of those gaps in education addressed.

Chelle: Sounds like you've got a great UU church down there in Frederick.

Irene: Oh my gosh, I'm so spoiled. So, we're what's known as a program congregation, which means we're quite large. So, it's two services, um, there's probably about 150 people at each one, and just, it's a robust congregation. Wow. Always something going on. And Frederick CUUPS, the CUUPS chapter that I lead, is, has sort of imitated and inherited the weird, as a Heathen would say, of our parent congregation, in that we are one of the largest CUUPS chapters in the country and one of the most active. And it's just a blessing of community, of our parent congregation being incredible, and of just really amazing folks who want to make it work. Uh, there's no way I individually could do all of the stuff we offer. I have an incredible team of people who make Frederick CUUPS what it is. We have so many teachers and community leaders. It's, it's amazing.

Chelle: You sound like a blessed group.

Irene: We are. I consider us ridiculously lucky. Just ridiculously lucky. It's, you know, it's really something. I, it's the privilege of my life.

Laylla: Now, because it is such a large and diverse group, and, and you practice, uh, what you call inclusive Heathenry, which I absolutely love, and you have this pagan community that is large and diverse, and you have your own devotional ideas and thoughts, can you tell me about balancing different groups? Because again, in our community, this is not a coven, this is a community of people that come from different backgrounds, and we need to work with that. Can you tell us a little bit about working with, with multi- different backgrounds?

Irene: Absolutely. So, Frederick CUUPS is designed to be a big tent pagan community, but we're large enough that we also have subgroups. So, for our Wheel of the Year rituals, so Summer Solstice, Spring Equinox, the quarters and the cross-quarters, we come together as one group, and those rituals are either centered around the lived emotional experience of the, the ritual in question. So, like, Samhain is an easy one, right? When we do the ancestors' ritual, it's about grief. It's about mourning those who have gone before. Everyone has that experience. Or, our rituals center, they'll have like multiple altars and multiple guides that are offering an experience with that pantheon. So, rather than like run away from the fact that we are a pluralist pagan group, we really lean into it. So, for example, coming up on the Summer Solstice, we're doing our annual full service for the UUCF, which means we take over a Sunday morning and basically do an entire ceremony just for them. And so, we have representatives from, uh, from the Heathen diaspora, from the Celtic one, from an, uh, sort of an animistic point of view, um, one of the African traditions is represented, right? And so, we try to make sure, we're very careful to be consciously pluralist, to bring in the voices, particularly of the groups that are present within the community. So, right now, Frederick CUUPS has, oh, and Hellenic. That was the one I couldn't remember. Uh, right now, Frederick CUUPS has a quite robust Hellenic group, a Heathen group, a strong Celtic presence, and then like just a lovely sort of eclectic animistic, non-theistic sort of vibe going on. So, those are, we call them paths within the community. So, you can then also hop into those and take them. And there's always like classes and workshops and, you know, separate circles on offer for things in addition to the whole community rituals. So, you can come together with, you know, 100 pagans and dance around a Maypole at springtime, and you can meet with 10 people and specifically pour out a libation to Athena. So, we try to, to basically both-and it, and so far, it's working pretty good.

Chelle: I was going to say, it sounds like you guys really are able to cater to a lot of diverse religious groups, and that, I think, is so phenomenal.

Irene: We do our very best to do so. And we're always interested in other people coming and talking to us also. So, you know, if, if you're a teacher and you're passing through the Frederick, Maryland area, please get in touch with me. We're really excited. We've got Laura Tempest Zakroff coming through later this year. Uh, we've had Kelden down from up north, you know, um, we had, uh, S.J. Tucker come across at one point in time because she was performing on the East Coast. Like, we are so happy to host other people and other practices. The community is very oriented toward learning, and, you know, we, we love it. Even those of us who aren't necessarily like of this path tend to be super curious about each other's practices. I think it's one of the, um, funny individual cultural pieces, is we all just really, we love learning about everybody else's stuff. So, you know, quite a few of us will be like, "I'm not Hellenic, but I'm definitely going to this Persephone workshop because I'd like to learn more about the goddess Persephone." And it makes us all better ambassadors to understand each other's faiths more. So there's this idea of of conscious pluralist learning. And I think that that really supports the way the culture of Frederick Cups works.

Chelle: I think that really deepens everyone's practice when you get to learn and experience all of these different things. It really brings it home to yourself and to everyone. There's kind of a, not synchronicity, there's kind of a, I don't know, the energy gets bigger. There's a multiplication that happens when you kind of get together like that and everyone is sharing in that way. I think it's a very beautiful way to have community.

Irene: Well, and I think specifically with pluralist communities, understanding what works for your other community members is wonderful. So I've been to rituals where like I didn't have a big mystical experience because it wasn't for me. But it was for the Celtic polytheists in the room and man, they had a great experience. And now I know some things about their ritual forms I didn't know before. And I got to see them having transcendental experiences and it filled my heart with joy.

Laylla: But you also got to contribute to that energy as well.

Irene: Right, to support their process. And so I think some of being in community successfully is also this legitimate joy in each other's spiritual process and in wanting to support that for each other. Like I want the Hellenics to have a good time. I want the Celts to have a good time. I want everybody to to get what they need from that that sacred fluid that comes into us when we are in a transcendental moment. Like we need it. The world fucking is rough right now. Like let's get everybody what they need if we possibly can and and take joy in it together, you know?

Chelle: All right, you mentioned the world is rough and I'm just going to bring this up real quick because I got to because it's bugging me. The rescinding of the pagan designation.

Irene: Yeah, I, I, yeah.

Laylla: As as a veteran.

Irene: I know your thoughts, but what are your thoughts?

Laylla: Sure thing. I think it sucks.

Chelle: Yeah. Yeah, you can you can swear here. I think it sucks a big pile of shit, to be honest. But, uh,

Irene: It's so it's short-sighted, it's irresponsible, and it's profoundly disrespectful. Pagans have been serving honorably for decades. I I got out of the Marine Corps more than 20 years ago now, and I had more support then in terms of my religious needs than people who are serving right now. And that's not how that should be. It shouldn't move in that direction. That's bullshit. We ask veterans to do such hard things. And the thing that a lot of people forget is that the overwhelming majority of the people in the military are under age 25, right? It's like 80% of the military. And now being a middle-aged person and looking back, they're kids. They're kids, they're alone, they don't have their parents, they're away from their support groups, and we ask them to do some of the hardest jobs in the world, and they do. They've chosen to serve. The very least we can do is support them spiritually. Religion and spirituality is a refuge. It's what we hold on to when it gets so fucking dark, right? That's the candle that carries us through. And to take that away, to just throw all of these religions, and it wasn't just paganism, right? Unitarian Universalist wildly is another one that got cut, to just throw them in this bucket of other religions and choose not to support them is, I don't even have the words for what a betrayal that is. We give so much. I walked with a cane for four years before surgery caught up with me and made it so that I can walk unassisted. I will never run again. I can only hike for like five miles. My body is broken for the rest of my life, and I did that out of love for this country. And people lose so much more, right? Veterans come home broken in profound ways, deeply changed, needing support. And this idea that we're now going to make it even harder for them to do an already difficult job is bullshit. And then along with that, of course, by tracking who is in the military, we then have information about the culture of the United States. So it's also important that pagans be counted. It's very easy with a minority group if we're not actually sort of looking at how much participation is there to be like, oh, well, they don't exist.

Laylla: They don't exist.

Irene: They don't exist. They don't help. They don't matter. You know, a friend of mine put in a FOIA request back in 2023. There were over 900 people who identified as pagan at that point in time. And there were another, I think, 500 or so flavors of heathen of various kinds, right? We're talking about more than a thousand active duty service members who fall into the category of pagan in some way. It's not a small number. We're not talking about like three or four people. We're talking about a significant number of people who are losing their support right now. And I'm going to climb off that soapbox because obviously I have very big feelings. But yeah, I'm fucking furious, y'all. Like, oh my god, like I uh I did have a bit of like a rage boom that day.

Chelle: Yeah. That went off like a shock wave, I think, through a lot of a lot of communities. A lot of us were blindsided and not, maybe not blindsided. We know all this is coming.

Irene: We knew it was coming, but there's something shocking about actually seeing it drop and just going, wow, all that work. I I remember the quest to get the pentacle put on pagan graves. I was part of the letter writing campaign that did that, and just full gratitude to Selena Fox and the Circle Sanctuary community for leading that effort. That was incredible. Like part of my personal ancestor season practice is I go to Arlington and I visit every grave with a pentacle on it or Thor's hammer on it that I know of. I say the names aloud and I make an offering. My spouse and I do that every year, and we have for over a decade. I cannot, right now, of course, the VA is a separate thing from active duty military, but if we begin to erase pagans who are actively serving, does it again bleed over to the VA? Do we then lose the ability to have our sacred symbols on our graves? What is the spill of this? How does it accelerate, right? Like there's so much. I said I was going to get off this soapbox.

Chelle: All right, so let's bring it back to community because this is,

Irene: We're going to put it in a box. We're going to put it in a box. We're going to set it aside for a second because that could be a whole separate episode. But we're going to bring that back to community because that's what's important now. This is what we need is is community. Selena Fox in that letter writing campaign, that was a beautiful, beautiful act of community, of service to this community. And that's kind of what we need is all of us to come together and to do these things, to be counted, to to be heard, to be part of of groups and communities. And like I said, we just started a community here one year ago. We're about to celebrate our one year anniversary. And yeah, thank you, thank you. We are super, super thrilled about it. But people come to us every day. We are constantly getting new people coming in because they're looking. They're seeking this community. Online is wonderful. We are talking today because of this beautiful, you know, internet that we can so that we can get together. But in person is also becoming very, very vital, I think, to everything that's happening here. You said you went to the UU because they had a labyrinth. Labyrinths are near and dear to my heart as well. Can you tell us a little bit about, um, just about your favorite parts of community? So let's let's let's get to that. Let's get to our favorite parts of community, things that we like.

Irene: No, I, so I've always kind of been one of those people that wanted to share my toys, right? Like as a child, I I always was. I think also some of it is I like so many pagans, I was a really odd kid. So I was sort of profoundly lonely as a as a child. I wasn't the one that everybody wanted to talk to. Um, I, you know, had a whole lot of sort of eating lunch alone experiences. And so when I first got my like very first book on witchcraft when I was like 15 years old, the thing I immediately did is I rounded up my crew of theater weirdos and was like, we're going to do rituals. Let's do we're going to learn witchcraft. We're going to form a coven. Yes. Right? And so that instinct of of I've found this beautiful thing and I want you to experience it too, and I want us all to do this beautiful thing together so that then we can talk about it and share and grow, that that piece of motivation has never gone away. It's the same now, right? It's 30 years later, it's the same. The very first pagan group I started was in Okinawa, Japan, while I was still in the Marine Corps. I started a group called Pagan Voices. It ran for the three years I was there and then for another seven or so after I left, which I'm really proud of. And then I came back to this country and like immediately got started in other pagan communities. Like I just I love us. I love witches. Pagans are incredible. They're some of the smartest, most interesting, strangest people you'll ever meet. And when we get together, things are possible and experiences happen that just can't be replicated in solitary practice. I wish that they were. I have a really nourishing, beautiful solitary practice. And also, my community practice, man, it's amazing, you know? We need friends. We need people who love us and shared experience, shared projects. It's such a strong, beautiful way to build bonds. Like I always just come back to the fact that humans are we're a tribal species. We weren't meant to be separated from each other. You know, we're meant to be part of a group of like 30 to 50 people who share resources and help each other raise their kids and gather food together and sing and tell stories around a fire. That's what we're supposed to be doing. So anything I can do that helps build that for me and for others, that's what I do. Uh, a friend of mine jokingly refers to my career as something that where I have cleverly turned a compulsive behavior into a paying field. And she's not wrong. I like I love I would do this anyway. I had to go full-time in 2018 because of an injury that meant I couldn't teach yoga. But like, I love us. My favorite things are these moments where so we do a big annual fundraiser at Frederick Cups. It's a masquerade ball. And there was a moment this past year, it was probably around like 11:00 p.m. at night, and I was just watching everyone in their gowns and their fancy clothes and their costumes dancing and laughing and talking and just had this this moment of, my god, why can't it always be this moment? Why can't it always be tonight? Because seeing people full of joy and connection and love is incredible. You know, and the counter to that is seeing people connect deeply and spiritually is extraordinary. I I love some of the more, I guess we would call them some of the more serious rituals. Like if we're going to we're going to give me any character flaws, it's that I'm sometimes a little too serious. I love I love the deep sort of plumbing of the soul stuff. It's why Twilight Covening is such a good fit for me, right? So I love it when people are having these profound experiences of transcendence and connection. I love it. We sometimes joke that I measure our rituals and how effective they were by how many people cried. I want to hit tears because then I know it's real, you know? Like I love I love that experience. So that's the thing I really adore about community is this this shared gnosis, this, you know, this shared joy in the work and in the spirituality. It's beautiful. There's nothing like it in the world. Nothing.

Chelle: If you can create community in a foreign country while in the Marines,

Irene: Yes.

Chelle: then I think we, our listeners, can create community where they are.

Irene: Oh, absolutely. To put like, right?

Chelle: And Foundations of Witchcraft: A Blackfeather Mystery School Training Manual, that could be a way to do it. I think this book, now people have a little bit of time before it comes out, get on Reddit. That's how I started this community here, is someone posted a looking for other pagans on Reddit. She and I got together. We've been together a year now, and it's over hundreds of people now.

Irene: Excellent.

Chelle: Right? And so something like this, something as simple as taking this book and saying, hey, I'm looking for other people to go through this book with me. Go to your local UU, go to your local metaphysical store, see if you can find other people to connect. Do you think that's a this book would be a good way for people to get together and work together?

Irene: Oh, absolutely. It's designed to be gone through, I mean, it was designed for a group, right? It was the the first cohort of of Blackfeather was like 60-ish people. Most cohorts, uh, in person are 30 to 60, and online are like 60 to 120. It's designed for a group. It works really well that way. There are some exercises in it that are, you know, where you have options, like if you're working with a small group, if you're working with a partner, if you are solitary, you know, and then you go through and you do the ones that are appropriate to your group. So yes, absolutely, totally. And also, just go looking for your local, uh, the musician Ginger Doss calls it the hippie pocket, right? No matter where we are, there's usually some cluster of like crunchy granola folk. And it's usually really easy to be like, hey, I want to do some witchy stuff, and then find at least one or two other people who are like, I am so fucking down.

Laylla: I do.

Chelle: The little heads will pop up and be like, oh, me too.

Irene: Exactly. Yeah. Yes, exactly. I love that little bit of advice. Look for the hippie pocket.

Irene: No, I, as soon as she has a song, or they rather, sorry, they have a song that, uh, called The Hippie Pocket, and they talk about touring and then finding the hippie pocket in different places. And I'm like, oh my god, this is the best way to describe that because it's true. You know, I used to live in Virginia, which is considerably more, uh, conservative, particularly where I lived, than where I live now. And also, there's a hippie pocket. You just have to find it.

Chelle: Sounds like me going to parties in the '90s. I used to look for the hippie pocket.

Laylla: Oh, see, I was going to say back in the '90s, you were the hippie pocket.

Chelle: That's true. That is true also. That was actually true.

Irene: The smell of patchouli, right, through the party. Like, I can sniff, there's a hippie here somewhere, I can smell them.

Chelle: You know me. Oh my god, that's great.

Laylla: I've been wearing either Birkenstocks or flip-flops since 1991. Proud of it.

Irene: Oh, yeah.

Chelle: All right. Well, we are, our hour is almost up, and you are one of the busiest pagans that we know, so we're not going to keep you too much longer. But thank you so much for sharing your time, your wisdom, your absolute joy with us today. I appreciate it so much.

Irene: Oh, thank you so much for having me. This was a delight. And I guess I will look forward to seeing you both at Sacred Space.

Laylla: I was going to say we are going to be seeing you in, what, is it going to be February or March?

Irene: This year is March. It's the last weekend in March. And, uh, Kindred Crow is playing the party again this year, so she'll be there.

Chelle: Fantastic.

Irene: And if the stars align, maybe I'll be a Twilight Covening.

Laylla: Yeah. Oh, now you're going to have to get another tattoo this year because I don't know if you know this, Irene, but, uh, Laylla and I got matching tattoos at Sacred Space.

Irene: Oh, that's awesome. That's so great.

Chelle: I don't know if we can show it on this. We're like trying to do yoga over here. No, no, I can, yeah, absolutely. It's working. It's working. We got it. But yes, we will definitely see you. Again, thank you so much. And if people want to get your book, we will have links to that in the show notes. Again, so it's called Foundations of Witchcraft: A Blackfeather Mystery School Training Manual. They can also find your website as well, and there's classes and things they can sign up for there. And where will you be next?

Irene: So, I will be at Spirit Fire Festival. That's up in, um, Massachusetts, or is it New York? It's up in New England. You can tell the Marylander is like, I don't know, you drive for a while. That one is Sacred Fire Circles. And if you love that vibe, it is the best I have ever seen them done. Um, I'm part of the ritual team for that. Uh, and then I will be at Temple Fest this year. So that one's in September. I'm presenting at Northeast Pagan, uh, Pride Day. You know what? Just go on to the Glasse Witch Cottage website, go to the events page, and there's a full list right there. Um, I also do a once a month Zoom workshop for anybody who's not local. And those are drop-in. They are not a series. So if you're interested in coming and learning stuff with me and talking about cool witchy shit, hop on in.

Chelle: Awesome. Well, again, thank you so much, Irene. We will put links to all of this in the show notes. Thank you so much.

Laylla: Thank you so much, Irene. And again, Irene Glasse, the most outspoken, using her time in the most efficient way, pagan on the East Coast.

Irene: Thank you.

Chelle: Thank you for listening to this episode of Back on the Broomstick. And a huge thank you to Irene for coming on. Remember, folks, like, share, star, thumbs up, whatever you do out there on the socials. You can find us at Back on the Broomstick on everything, Instagram, Facebook, Spotify, Apple, all the things. You know what to do, folks.

Chelle: To get a copy of Irene's book, check out her website. We'll have links to all of that in the show notes, and we will see you next week. Be wise, be wicked, and keep it witchy.
