Laylla: Welcome to Back on the Broomstick, a modern witches' spoken word grimoire, where two witchy friends from way back are reconnecting to their pagan roots after a long period of mundanity. We're rewalking the path of the wise and trying out all the latest spells, rituals, and magical theory in today's witchcraft and pagan practices. So grab your wand and your incense, your cauldron and your crystals, and join us as we get back on the broomstick.

Laylla: Hi, and welcome to Back on the Broomstick. I'm Laylla, and on this episode, we're welcoming Dina Rosenberg, creator of the Crystal Keys Tarot, co-owner of Amityville Apothecary on Long Island. Dina is an Italian folk witch and tarot reader whose work brings together ancestral wisdom, intuitive reading, and a deep love of crystals.

Chelle: And I'm Chelle, and as y'all know, I am well over my 300th deck. Um, I love decks, so I am about to just dive into my zone, and I am so excited. And this is a fabulous deck, and we can't wait to get into it and talk about it and talk about the the method behind it. So, Laylla and I would like to welcome Dina Rosenberg. Yay!

Laylla: Welcome.

Dina: Thank you so much. I am so happy and excited to be here and talk to you and everybody. It's just great.

Laylla: You know, it's kind of funny, Dina, because we were sent this deck from Red Wheel Weiser, and we love it. And then, we got kind of a little bit of a nudge from a listener. So, Cliff, we're totally going to throw you under the bus here, Cliff. We love you.

Chelle: Hi, Cliff.

Laylla: Hi, Cliff. Thank you for this. But we fell in love with this deck and hadn't done the review yet, but we were using it like crazy and including putting it on some of our social media at different things that we had done. And Cliff contacted us and said, "Hey, I happen to know the person who made the deck, who authored the deck. Would you like to get in touch with her?" And we were like, "Heck, yes. Please do." So, it was a little bit of a roundabout way that we got to you, and we are very, very happy to have you here because, I don't know if you can see, but I've used this so the gilding's coming off because I use this deck all the time.

Dina: Yeah, same. Definitely. That's the thing about gilding, you know? Well-used deck.

Chelle: It's pretty out of the packaging.

Dina: Oh, it is. And even from far away, she still looks good. I mean, mine's pretty roughed up. I've been pulling a card a day out of her since January 1st, so she's pulled enough. But, but Cliff is the best. I actually just saw Cliff last night. We had a past life regression with Susan Graw, who wrote a book called, um, Infinite Life, Infinite Lessons. She's a psychic medium that had a near-death experience, an NDE, and she's out in LA. She was recently on like the Drew Barrymore Show, super jealous. So, we had her out, and we were all together trying to dive into our past lives.

Laylla: That's one of the things that I'm very interested in as well. I do love a good past life regression. But, before we get too off track, because trust me, get me in the meditation and stuff like that, I'll get there. But, your deck, so we were sent this deck, and honestly, I, I was at first like, okay, it's a crystal deck. What does that mean? I'm like, what's a crystal deck? But I loved the image that came up, the one of the cards here, the image on the book is just fabulous. So, I thought, you know, I like crystals, I like tarot, I'll give this a try. I'm not sure what it is about layering the two together, but this deck very much speaks to me. It, it has a lot to say in a lot of different ways. And these crystals that you picked aren't necessarily the typical ones you might hear associated with tarot. Can you tell us a little bit about that?

Dina: So, I suppose I need to explain that crystals is my first love. So, if everybody has this sort of like witchy gateway into this world where they start, like is it tarot, is it astrology, is it herbs? For me, it was crystals. And so, the tarot, even though I got my first tarot deck in 1995, tarot was always like a little bit herky-jerky for me to like memorize 78 cards. Forget about reversals. By the way, I don't read reversals, and you don't have to either if it pisses you off. It's fine. Because people are like, reversals, like I don't do that. And I teach tarot class, and when like the, the students in my class are reading reversals, I roll my eyes at them. I'm like, can we just like, this is like a class that we're starting from the beginning, why are we doing this? Anyway, super frustrating. Like, why can't I memorize all 78 of these cards? And then I was in the shower, and literally it hit me like the lightning in the Tower card. Moldavite and the Tower are the same energy. And I was like, yeah, absolutely. And I was super intrigued. And then the image that you showed, which is Chrysocolla and the Empress, came really fast. Selenite and the High Priestess, Emperor and Pyrite, fast, fast, fast, fast, fast. I was like, hmm, really interesting.

Laylla: They just fell into place beautifully.

Dina: They came very quick. I'm like, this is really interesting. Maybe I could do this. And then, what seems like maybe, I don't know, five days later, seven days later, something like that, a freaking illustrator walks into my shop. I'm at work on a Saturday, I'm behind the counter carving a candle, and up, up comes to me this woman, Amalia. "Hi, my name is Amalia. I've been told to introduce myself to you by the, by the girls working in the front. I'm an illustrator, I'm an artist, and they said I should speak to you."

Laylla: Wow. Divine intervention there.

Dina: Yes. So, I was like, huh, do you have a card? And we were, you know, chit-chatting or whatever, and I reached out to her, and we had a meeting at a local coffee shop, and I said, um, she said, "Oh, tell me about yourself." And she's younger than, than I am. I'm, I'm 50. She's like in her early 30s, she could be like my little sister. And I was like, "Oh, you know, I'm the child of jazz musicians." And she's like, "That's so weird. I'm like the child of jazz musicians." I'm like, "That's so weird." And anyway, it turns out, because like it's like really weird, right?

Laylla: That's so, what are the chances? What are the chances of that?

Dina: No, but wait. Her uncle was the trumpet player in my parents' band.

Laylla: No shit.

Chelle: Oh, wow.

Laylla: Wow. Talk about synchronicities.

Dina: So spooky. So, anyway, we started working on this thing, and I, I told her the imagery for like really like the imagery for Moldavite was really like, you know, obviously the Moldavite comes from space, so Moldavite crashing into the tower, that was like the whole image. And we sort of talked about it, and we sketched about it, and if you go on my Instagram, if you guys are visual, my personal Instagram is @dina_l_rosenberg, the first pinned post has this like release day little montage that shows some of those original sketches that we sat and we were like workshopping, the sketches of how we were going to do everything. And it took from probably our first meeting to release date about four years, but it was a year to match the correspondences of the crystals with the archetypes of the cards. Yeah, it was, it was a project.

Laylla: I've heard that it takes quite a while. Creating a tarot deck is no simple endeavor. It is a labor. It is a true labor when you start this, yeah.

Chelle: Now, it's funny that you said that it was the gateway for you, because it was the opposite for me. I have been reading tarot cards since about 1994, and tarot's my thing. Tarot's always been my thing. And I never, you can only, you can only have one obsession/addiction/hobby at a time, um, and tarot was my thing. So, I never really got into crystals. It, it was too much for me to, to take on. And about six years ago, I had moved to Salem, Massachusetts, and all of a sudden, I came into this awakening of, of being called to crystals. So, I started collecting crystals and, and started working with crystals a whole hell of a lot more than I ever have in the last 30 years. And got this real connection. And when your deck came, and you know, I, I literally have hundreds of decks. I've seen them all. I love tons of them. But what set this one apart from all of those was it clicked. I was starting to realize, oh, this stone, oh, this stone is, is related to this card. So, I kind of had the opposite revelation where it kind of has started to open up the door a little more for me with crystals because that's not, that has not been my forte.

Dina: That's so exciting to hear because that was sort of the hope, right? If you were a crystal person, your understanding of crystals would inform the archetypes, but vice versa, that if you understood the archetypes, it would go the other way. So, I'm so happy that you're saying it's working bi-directionally for you.

Chelle: Absolutely.

Dina: Because it's, you know, when we're witches and we're, we're trying to do spellwork, whether we're, you know, reading tarot, working with crystals, or whatever it is that we're doing, right, we want to layer as many correspondences as possible, right? And what is the correspondence, but it's like these really close energetic linkages. And the more you energetically link them, the more power your, the more powerful or effective your spellwork will be. And, and so that, for me, the crystals sort of always spoke to me on that level where I could connect with them. And, and in my opinion, they're sort of like these like living, I don't want to sound like completely off my rocker, but these like living, conscious beings that change as human beings are on the earth as well. Like as we change, our relationship with the stones changes as well. And so, because, even though I, I got my, my first tarot deck like around 1995, the stones, I think I got, I started getting into like crystal jewelry when I was like seven, eight, nine years old, where I used to go to these like little flea markets and beg my grandmother to buy me these Native American, um, silver cuffs. I still have them. Turquoise, black onyx, just all of those things. So, I'm so glad to hear that that is working for you in that way.

Chelle: I, I think it's a good tool also, you mentioned with spellwork. I haven't ever really leaned on tarot for spellwork much. I just, I just haven't. I've utilized other methods. But this, like I've had a stalker card, and Laylla and I were kind of laughing about this. I pulled a couple cards yesterday, this card came up. Like literally shuffled the deck five or six different times today, and the same freaking card keeps coming up. And I happen to have the matching stone for it. So, I keep getting the Chariot.

Dina: Ah.

Chelle: The Carnelian.

Dina: Mm.

Chelle: So, even though I may not necessarily use a physical card in spellwork or a ritual, I now would take that same energy, that Chariot-type energy, and utilize my Carnelian.

Dina: Yeah, exactly. This deck, I hear so many stories about how this deck stalks people. It does. Like, it's, she's something else, man. I'm like, I, maybe, maybe because so much of it was channeled. Like, really, a lot of it was really just channeled. And so, even the correspondences that I had picked, by the time I got around to writing the book and writing the meaning of where I was going and what quote-unquote angle I was taking for the card, because like, let's face it, when you're writing a tarot, tarot book that goes, that goes with a deck, this isn't gigantic. You got to, you got to pick an angle for the card. This book could just be one card, really, if you think about it.

Laylla: Really, it could. Absolutely.

Dina: So, I'm really trying to think about the angles, and I remember there were times where I was sitting and looking at the card, thinking about the correspondence that I picked, and thinking like, why the fuck did I pick this? Like, I forgot. Like, okay, you know, pick the stone, I'm looking at the card. Yeah, it was really, really funny. And then I would just like sit and be like, okay, what are we, what are we doing with this?

Chelle: Is there any that you ended up switching before publication? Was there any stone and card, or a set of stones and cards, where you're like, you know what, these need to be flip-flopped?

Dina: So many. So many. The first thing that happened was we went through, I, so the first thing we did was we did the Major. All the Majors we did first, and then Amalia started working on the art for those. I was like, "All right, while you're doing the Majors, I'm going to start picking off the Minors." And I did, and we had already had a conversation that we wanted to color-assort the suits.

Laylla: Mhm.

Dina: To make them make sense. Because, like, sort of like because I'm a crystal person, what aggravated me about the other attempts to do this would be like, how do you have in like the Swords all these different colors? It doesn't make sense because Swords, in my opinion, are always throat, throat up. So, we're talking about ethereal here, we're talking blues, aquas, purples, things like that. So, we, we knew we wanted to do that. And, and because I was channeling, and because I was like really leaning into the archetypes, I didn't start with like a list of crystals that were like your heavy hitters that needed to be in the deck, which is why you see things in here that you're like, I've never even heard of this.

Laylla: Right, yeah.

Dina: Like, everybody's like, "What the hell is Wolframite?" You know what I mean? Like, there's a lot of that. So, by the time I got down and finished all 78 correspondences, Malachite wasn't in the deck, Smoky Quartz wasn't in the deck, and Black Tourmaline wasn't in the deck. And I was like, oh.

Chelle: Interesting.

Dina: Really weird, right? So, so of course I was like, well, that can't be. And interestingly enough, Temperance, who is an asshole, does anybody else constantly get victimized by Temperance? I mean, I know I am. Literally was an asshole the entire time. Temperance started out as Danburite because I always connect Danburite with being like super angelic, and I was like really honed into like the angelic figure on the original Rider-Waite-Smith depiction. And Danburite, because it's clear and it's so pale, was really hard for Amalia to photograph and get the texture of. So, she was like, "Look, I made this, it sort of like isn't working." And I was like, "All right, fine. That's okay. Danburite, it's not meant to be." Then Temperance became, literally the opposite, right? So, it goes from this like high, upper chakra ethereal Danburite, which is like one of like Robert Simmons' like synergy, I don't know if it's like what is it, 12, synergy 12 stones. It goes to Galena, which is freaking lead. It went like, like literally from the top to the bottom. All the way down. All the way down. Because Galena is a stone of alchemy and personal transformation. And I was like, that's an interesting story, you know, you have these cups and like, you know. And then I was like, no, that's not right. And then when I saw that, and of course my poor illustrator, she did Danburite, she fucking does Galena, she's like, "I am going to stab you. Stop making me do this." Then we see, then I see, holy shit, there's no Smoky Quartz in the deck. And like Smoky Quartz is so important to me. And I'm like, oh my god, absolutely. Like Smoky Quartz, if you think about what Temperance means, or if you think of the English word tempering and what actual activity of tempering is, Smoky Quartz tempers our energy.

Laylla: So, that worked out beautifully.

Dina: Well, I think what it is is meant to be, like.

Laylla: It was waiting for you to pick it.

Dina: It was. It was like, we're just not going to let things work out until you get to the right one.

Laylla: Yeah, you had to like work through the heights, work through the depths, until you finally came to the right one. That's kind of, that sounds very Temperance-like.

Dina: Yeah, that one switched. Um, Strength was Rhyolite, which don't, whoever loves really loves Rhyolite, don't come for me. It was like really ugly. She wasn't cute. We're like, oh, it's not cute. It's just not cute. And, and then we wound up, I was like, oh, Black Tourmaline makes a lot of sense. And then, who else changed? Um, oh, the King of Pentacles changed to Gold. He was supposed to be Yellow Sapphire.

Laylla: Ooh. Gold fits really well.

Dina: Yeah. It sounds like the crystals kind of picked their own cards. They did. That's what I'm saying, like they're channeled. So, the ones that like Amalia would have a little bit of trouble with, like the transparency of the stones, it wound up like what was meant to be like channeled in. And then like the ones that were like straight away like smash me in the face correspondences never changed. Like the imagery of the Devil came through like fast and hard, and that one is like pretty much like the furthest from the Rider-Waite-Smith imagery. It has nothing to do with it at all, really.

Laylla: Now, I have to give you and Amalia a lot of credit because the images on these cards are not super detailed. Some are very detailed and have a lot of imagery, some are very, very simple where you might even call them like a pip card, like close to a pip card. However, I didn't realize that until I was looking at the deck again the other night because somehow Amalia and the two of you were able to put so many layers into these cards. Like, you were talking about Moldavite was one of the, was the first one that came to you. In the Tower, the Moldavite card, there's so many different, I read this in a reading for someone the other night, and it was a tree because the imagery came as growth after the destruction. And you can see almost the tree growing out of that. And Moldavite, for some people, can be very destructive. It breaks everything down, but then it kind of brings you back up. It can help you find that strength. So, it was very interesting to see that. But, again, the, the images can be very simple but very layered. Can, can you tell me about some of the ways that, that you and Amalia worked together to come up with these designs? Was there anything that surprised you that came out of that pairing?

Dina: Yeah, you know, I have to tell you that like I really loathe a pip deck.

Laylla: Yeah, no, I like imagery. I like something to lean onto.

Dina: Yeah, like no, I'm a pip, I'm a little bit of a pip hater. So, we knew that we wanted to take the people as far out of the deck as we could. If the crystals were going to be the center, the people had to go. And the only person in the deck really is the Empress. You know?

Laylla: That's true, actually.

Dina: So, that was really important to us. You know, I feel like I have a cheat, right, you guys? The cheat is, maybe I don't have a 300 deck collection, but I have sold, I don't, I don't, I'm really picky. I like literally I'm like a Smith-Waite girl and then my own deck, that's it. But I sell a lot of tarot decks and I see everything because I have a bookstore and I have a metaphysical shop. So, I sort of have a cheat code, and the cheat code is I know what what works and I know what people like because I offer it to them and I see them buying it. And, you know, the cards, the reasons why people like cards or connect with them is because they can fall into the art a little bit or pull pieces of meaning out.

Chelle: Absolutely. Absolutely.

Dina: And so that was sort of, so Amalia and I would have these conversations at my kitchen table about what makes a good deck, what makes art that we like, what about certain decks we really, really liked, what pisses us off about decks, like representation, not having representation.

Laylla: So important.

Dina: Like, all, all like, as my daughter would say, like decks in the land of Caucasia, like why there's so many white people. You know, like it's like that type of thing. So we were like, let's take all the people out because we we didn't really want to get into, you know, we don't want all the knights to be men. We don't, you know what I mean? So like, well, we're just going to take the people out of the story. And I think that early decision really forced Amalia to figure out how she was going to make the crystals the star of the show. And she did that by layering, almost like digital collage, photos of the crystals and then like sort of art and illustration over them, and that's really what you're picking up on. She even took photos of some of the stones in my personal collection, as well as the crystals in the shop. So she would come in and photograph, she'd ask me for images. She has, I gifted her a piece of my pyrite. I'm pretty sure it's in the Emperor card. So that's really, that was like really important to us to make to make that happen. But there is there is like there is a little bit of a pip-ish nature.

Chelle: Slightly, but you don't realize it, and that's what I love about this. Like take this Four of Swords. It's very, very simple. There are four swords, three coming down at you, one laying down, with hands folded over like they're praying. And it very much gives you the whole idea of this card. You can see that you don't need a person in it. You don't need all the regular imagery. It's all right there, just in a very simple, simple form. And I think that's part of what is beautiful about this deck, is it lets you get lost in the the background, in the crystal itself, I guess, in the the fractions, the...

Dina: Yeah, what she did was she took the layout of the Rider-Waite-Smith and put it. So like, if in the Five of Swords, you'll see the sword placement is pretty much similar to what you would find in the Rider-Waite-Smith.

Chelle: Mhm.

Dina: So I think also, too, subconsciously, you're like, oh, I know those positions.

Chelle: You automatically fill it in. Yes.

Laylla: And I I was actually going to mention the Three of Swords. I mean, it's it's the exact imagery that we all know and love from Rider-Waite-Smith. But yet, when you pair that with an Apache tear,

Dina: Mhm.

Laylla: it gives it a whole different depth and a whole different vibe. Same imagery, but a whole different vibe to this card.

Dina: Yeah. Yeah. That one came really fast, too. I knew it had to be Apache tears. It was it was it was like either that or lepidolite, but Apache tears was was the winner, like sort of knocked lepidolite out of the park. I was like, no, no.

Chelle: No.

Dina: Not her.

Chelle: When we first started talking about this deck, you called her her, and you said she's got an attitude. And I will definitely say that this deck calls to me. It rings. It has a sound. And so if I'm, you know, headed out to a community event where we're going to pull cards, she'll say, hey, I'm here, bring me.

Dina: Yeah.

Chelle: You know, she definitely wants to come along. So this is one of those decks that I would say has a personality. I know not everybody kind of gets into that, but they do seem to have personalities. They really do.

Dina: Yeah.

Chelle: And this one does. This one has a lot of energy to it. And can you explain your relationship with that and how you kind of felt that first?

Dina: You know, I really didn't feel the energy until I got the deck, and I got my copy like December 23rd or something, and I didn't open it until January 1st, which like people were amazed that I like...

Chelle: Wow. How did you have that restraint? I don't I could never.

Dina: Because because it was Christmas time, there was like stuff going on, and we were leaving as a family to go to Puerto Rico on Christmas Day.

Chelle: So you were busy.

Dina: And I was like, I had like packing my family, you know, and I know poor me going to Puerto Rico, like literally like missed the snowstorm. But going somewhere like off-season is weird because you have to like find all the shit that you have and haven't been wearing and like pack it. So like, you know, things are weird and you're like, shit, whatever. So then I was like, all right, I want to take my time with this. I don't want it to be forced, and I want it to feel right. And like, I'm a fucking witch. Like, obviously, like I'm tapped into the energy, and if it's not right, like I didn't want to do it. And then I'm also a business owner, and I also knew I had to had to film it, so I wanted like wanted it to be right, but I also didn't want it to be canned either. It was like this really weird thing. And and this is the story of this deck, by the way. The reason why also a lot of times that this deck took four years is because I literally went so much on vibes. If I wasn't ready to write, I didn't write. I there would be months that would go by where Amalia and I wouldn't talk, four months, five months, six months. My husband would say like, where is the deck? What's going on? I'd be like, stop asking me that question. Like, I like like I don't want to talk about it. Like, and I'm very much one of those, I'm like that type of like person where like, I'll let you know when you need to know, stop getting on my back about it. Like, I didn't need a a manager. And and so, yeah, I didn't open it until January 1st on the beach in Puerto Rico. And when I opened it, I didn't know about the purple foil. I it was a complete surprise to me. And when I started reading it, and the first person I read was my daughter on the beach on New Year's Day, and I did a reading to ask how her summer would shape up because she was applying to internships. She just finished her second year of college. And she was applying to these lab positions, and I was like, how is it going to go? Is she going to get a position? What's going to happen? And the reading was good, and I was like, oh, shit. Like, I think this is going to be good. And she, yeah, she does. She's she's like that friend that you can't like, she's not going to tell you the lipstick looks good on you, is what I'm saying. If it's like not the right shade, she's going to be like, bitch, wash your face and put something else on. Like, that's what she is. But like, not in a mean way to make you feel bad about yourself, in a way to like protect you. That's the energy that I get from her.

Chelle: That's exactly what I get, too. You get the answer to the question you're asking. You don't have to love it, but you're getting the answer to the question you're asking.

Dina: Yeah.

Chelle: Yeah.

Dina: Yeah. And she's going to call you out on your crap. Like like if you come to the question, and like you know that you really have a preference and you're being like a dick about it because you're asking the same thing over and over again, she will absolutely call you out. But that's very much me. That's the type of magic and the type of work and the type of reading I do because I am the type of person where if you ask me a question, I'll be like, that's not the right question.

Chelle: Nice. Nice. Sometimes cards are going to answer what the cards are going to answer. That's true.

Dina: Yeah. Yeah, yeah.

Laylla: Now, I have a question. It's kind of trivial, but I was just curious. Um, I had asked Laylla today, and she didn't know the answer. Do did you and Amalia pick the back design, or does the publisher?

Dina: Okay. So they picked the back design, but Amalia, when we saw it, Amalia zhuzhed the back design. And I know that some people have something to say about the back design because of the back design, you can't read it reversed.

Chelle: You're a reversed girl, so you're not into that.

Dina: And I almost had a heart attack because I said to my editor, and I'm on a deadline now, and I'm like plugging away because when I got this deck was like probably 50% designed and 30% written when it got picked up by Weiser.

Chelle: Wow.

Dina: And they're like, how much time do you need? And I was like, six months. Fuck my life. So I had to write and and write, write, write. And Amalia's like, all right, let's go. We're doing this. Giddy up. And um so you learn really fast like what the publishers do, what you do. They named it. We didn't name it. It didn't have a name. And they design the the the box, they design the book, and they design the card back. Halfway through my deadline, I said to my publisher, oh, shit, do I need to write reversals?

Chelle: They left that up to you?

Dina: She's like, no, I don't, no, she's like, no, I don't think you need to. I hadn't in my writing samples included any because I had given them, I think I'd given them the Devil, and they're like, no, you don't need to. I'm like, I don't read those. So I don't even know because the problem is, too, like, right, if you reverse the card, oh my god, I just got a really fucking awesome idea. Anyway, if you reverse the card, the meaning of the crystal no longer holds, is the problem.

Chelle: Oh.

Dina: Because when you change the archetype and you change the way the archetype is interacting with your energy energetic field, the crystal's different.

Chelle: That makes sense. That makes a lot of sense.

Laylla: So this deck is actually meant to be read without reversals. So it's not even a personal preference. This is meant to be read without reversals.

Dina: No, it doesn't. No, because like think about like some of the cards when they're reversed are a little bit more nuanced or internal, but like some of them are completely different. Like, so for example, like think about like the archetype of the Queen of Swords, where upright, she's, you know, truth and cutting away bullshit and this like higher wisdom authority. But when she's reversed, she's deceptive. But tanzanite is, but it completely changes it. Like tanzanite, not tanzanite, that's the King. Alexandrite is not deceptive. I don't even know like how I would how like basically what would happen would be that just like, for example, the Three of Swords Apache tears, the crystal associated with it would have to be the the like the antidote.

Chelle: I see. I see. I like that. For me personally, I am someone who does read reversals, but I don't necessarily always go with what the book mean. Like you said, sometimes the meaning is is slightly different. Sometimes it's internal. Sometimes it has a completely different meaning. However, especially with a deck like this, where it's not technically meant to be read traditionally with reversals, if cards do get reversed, I feel that that has a reason. And so I'll usually read that as maybe that particular energy is against you. Maybe that particular energy is less in your life than you need it to be, or maybe it's something that you're underutilizing or maybe you're ignoring it. Uh, so it doesn't traditionally follow the same meanings because your deck, like you said, the crystals kind of almost prevent some of that. Like they they kind of give it a particular, just like uh crystal matrixes. You can only go in one particular direction for that crystal. This is the same way. If you do end up with reversals in this deck, I would probably read them more as maybe that's something you need to pay attention to more, or maybe that's something again that's uh flowing out, like a a cup upside down might be that energy is flowing out of your life, not necessarily a traditional reversal.

Dina: Yeah, that's a good, that's a good suggestion. You know, it's it's really interesting. I I think like tarot is a discipline where you never stop learning or developing relationship with the archetypes in the cards. It's it's like it's never over. And, you know, you get into a point in your practice, your relationship with the cards, like if I can read a book and get like a new book that that's written and get one different nugget that I put into my practice, like that was a great book.

Chelle: Yes.

Dina: Yeah.

Laylla: Yep.

Chelle: Yeah.

Dina: I love that. I have never considered that, but that's something that I might consider about reversals.

Chelle: Well, cool. All right. So, all right. So, while I'm on a roll,

Dina: Yeah, she's on a roll.

Chelle: I'm going to say that in the beginning of your book, you do have a spread, a tarot spread. Now, one of the things Laylla and I absolutely love to do is spread creation. It's something that a lot of people could do if they put their mind to it. I do think that there is a little bit of or a lot of positioning, you know, setting things up for reasons. They have meaning to the positions. So when I saw your crystal spread in the beginning, I really liked it. So I thought I would give it a shot, and it works great. It's a very good spread. And again, it kind of gives me that idea of the lattice work that you can see when you look at crystals under a microscope. You know, kind of following those lines of the crystal in the reading was a really uh revelatory reading. It gave a very good reading. So can you tell us a little bit about how you designed that spread or or designing tarot spreads in general?

Dina: Well, first, I don't mean to disappoint you, but I am not typically a spread reading girl. I am a chaotic tarot reader. I I that the style of reading that I do, I don't even maybe it has a name, and I just do it intuitively, but I put a card in the middle and I make like a V, and then it comes back. And and when it comes back, I don't know when it's going to come back in. It depends on the story that we're telling and what's happening.

Chelle: Yes.

Dina: And it's almost like in the conversation, it's what I it's what I do. But, going back to my business owner hat and selling a lot of decks, I know that people love being able to activate their tarot deck in some way or use it in some way that's unique to that specific deck. So I knew that that would be important, and I almost felt like, you know, crystal grids is such a thing, and again, not to disappoint people, I'm like not like a gigantic crystal grid person either.

Chelle: Little more chaotic than that?

Dina: I am. I'm uh I would say I'm definitely more of like like a like a chaotic witch, for sure. But I knew I wanted to do something that was more structured and organized. So I put on my Capricorn rising hat. Here's the thing. It's a seven-card spread. I am a seven life path, which is the mystic number, and I live in a seven house. So like, the seven and I'm also an Italian folk witch, and you do things in odd numbers because odd numbers can't be broken in half. So to be able to snap something in half is bad luck, or at least that's what my grandmother said. If you're an Italian folk witch and you're like, that's not the lore, that's the lore that my grandmother told me, so be quiet.

Chelle: Grandma lore is gospel.

Dina: Rock solid.

Chelle: Grandma lore is the way it goes, really.

Dina: Listen, when I was getting married to my first husband, those little um the Jordan almonds, she was like, you have to do three or you have to do five. You can't do four, otherwise you're going to get divorced. I mean, whatever, we got divorced anyway, but...

Chelle: Maybe he ate four.

Dina: Whatever. So, I wanted, you know, obviously, to have something that people could understand to work with. I wanted to lay it out in the crystal shape to sort of make it make sense. And I wanted people to sort of get the understanding that when you do these spreads, whatever you do, you could then go to the stones and pull them and put them in the pocket. Like if the stone if like if the the reading resonates with you, and you could...

Laylla: If carnelian is stalking you, you can grab that carnelian.

Dina: Just grab it and work with it. And like there's a reason. So like like you say, you got the stalker card and the energy is coming to you, or you love, you know, the outcome of this reading and you really resonate with one particular card, you if you have the stone, you could grab it and you could be like, all right, I'm going to work with or have that energetic field in my energetic field and sort of see what happens. I think it's really important to be a scientist in terms of your magic and your practice, and you're the scientist of your experience, and your feelings count. And so I think like keeping track of that and writing that down and working with the stones and like, how does this crystal make you feel? The Chariot's been stalking me. How does carnelian feel in my energy? This is like super important and valid.

Laylla: You can do the opposite as well, you know, if if you're feeling called to a stone, maybe go find that card and explore that card.

Dina: Yeah.

Chelle: Oh, you're killing me, she.

Dina: Yeah, and and the deck has the affirmations. So maybe you don't want to work with the whole, and I and I the affirmations came from the oh my gosh, hello, I never said of words with my my menopause, the perimenopause brain of the losing words is like very annoying.

Chelle: Oh, I fucking hate perimenopause. It's the worst.

Dina: Like literally the worst. I'm like...

Chelle: What's the crystal for that? Because I need three of them.

Dina: Oh my god, I don't even know. It's terrible, dude. Um, the inspiration, that was the word I was looking for.

Chelle: Inspiration, yes.

Dina: The inspiration to have affirmations was Robert Simmons' Book of Stones. So at the end of Robert Simmons', you know, they always have an affirmation for the crystal, and I was like, yeah, that's dope. If I have like an affirmation that sort of like merges the two, then people could work with the stone, like you said, or your or you're interested in the stone, you could pull the affirmation, you could use that as a lead-in to a meditation, you could use it as a journal prompt. I mean, there's like a bazillion ways you could work with it.

Chelle: The other thing you have in here that I'm going to pull out real quick is, I can only think of two of them, but you have a quote from Modest Mouse, "Trailer Trash," in here.

Dina: I don't even listen to Modest Mouse.

Chelle: You don't? And you've got a quote from Leonard Cohen, "Anthem," in here.

Laylla: That makes it better.

Chelle: Where did those where did those songs come from?

Dina: Okay. I mean, it's not like okay, I know Modest Mouse. Like I listen like I know of them, obviously. I okay, I'm a music person. Like people, it's so funny, I have like always these ideas like, you should do a music deck. There's like a bazillion music decks. The way the Modest Mouse quote came to be is that I was searching for a memory, and maybe we can blame it on perimenopausal brain. But I had heard somebody say that like you spend your whole life going to like going back to the child you once were. And so I was like searching furiously to find what the quote attribution was, and then I stumbled upon the Modest Mouse lyric, and I was like, this is perfect.

Chelle: It is. The quote is actually, "You spend the most of your life looking for the adult you are. You spend the rest of your life looking for the child that you were." And that's for the Six of Cups, and I think that's perfect.

Dina: Yeah, I just so that one, and then the like Leonard Cohen, I love, um like that's more my speed. And that's for Septarian, right? That's...

Chelle: Yes, for Judgment. Yes.

Dina: For Judgment? Another another card that I have issues with, and I think not I don't have issue with the meaning, I don't have issue with the archetype, I have issue with the writer, the Rider-Waite-Smith imagery because it's, for whatever reason, it like pisses me off. I, I, I, I get, me...

Laylla: What card?

Dina: Judgment. I don't like like that Revelation imagery. It just like it pisses me, I'm not, I'm like a very, as like a folk Italian sort of Catholic-adjacent, at least my brand of witchy Catholicism, I don't necessarily have a very good relationship with like Revelation whatsoever. So the imagery of the traditional Judgment card like really pisses me off. And so that was one that was a little bit harder to write. And then when, and Septarian was something that was an easy sort of fit for me because it's really about like integrating and learning your lessons and being like the next best version of yourself. And that's really what Septarian allows you to do. But the Septarian does look like that ancient Japanese art of kintsugi, and that's sort of like the angle that I got into with finding that, that Leonard Cohen quote. Nice.

Laylla: I do have one last question for you. Speaking of cards that stalk you and gods that, energies that stalk you, I came to a card, I started looking to a card because of a, of a connection to a particular crystal. For me, that crystal's bloodstone.

Dina: Mmh.

Laylla: Back many decades ago when I first met one of my first trainer, trainers, teachers, one of my first teachers, she did what she called a stoning, and she would give me a crystal and just have me feel what I felt about it. And I'd never seen most of these. I was a witchling, it was the '80s, I didn't know what I was doing. When we came to the bloodstone, I literally went into a full-on, I had a vision, and I'd never had a vision that clear in my life. And I was telling Chelle when we were talking about it earlier that I can still smell the leaves, the loam of the forest from that vision right now. And bloodstone is, is one that I have a very strong connection with. So I looked up which card bloodstone was, and it's the Hanged One, which is also kind of funny because I've been having this relationship where Odin's kind of stalking me. I have a lot of learning to do, I guess, and so he keeps showing up in a lot of things. So, and a lot of times people will show the, the Hanged Man as Odin. So I thought that was kind of an interesting connection. Can you uh talk to me a little bit about bloodstone as the, the Hanged One?

Dina: So, it's so, it's so interesting how I got to bloodstone as the Hanged One. And I think because bloodstone connects to this Christ consciousness wisdom, right? Because they would think like that the, the blood, the blood of bloodstone, those droplets, are reminiscent of, you know, Christ's blood. And I am, if anything, a former Goth in training, so give me a blood-dripped crucifix any day of the week.

Laylla: And the spider imagery is, is almost, you know, uh Black Widow-ish, you know, with the, the dark red and the black and hanging from the web. It's very beautiful.

Dina: Yeah, she did, we, we knew we wanted it, again, we wanted to take the people out. So what, what is the Hanged One? So what I love about the spider imagery is not only being, like, it's, it's hanging, but the spider is hanging and creating instead of hanging in like that traditional passive, right? So the spider's hanging and creating. And it really reminded me of, I don't really read the, the Hanged One as, like, yes, stop, reflect, but it's more like turn everything over and look at everything from a different perspective. And so...

Laylla: Oh, I love that.

Dina: ...like, like you have to turn it around. Like, I always get the imagery of like somebody with a Rubik's Cube, like turning it over in their hands over and over again to solve. That's sort of like one of the image, like the, like the, like the flashes that comes to mind when I think of the, the Hanged One. And I think about like the precision of what a spider has to craft, and like the architecture involved in that web. And, and sort of to like look at problems upside down and like think like, how are you connected to them? How are you connected to the situation? Like, what are you weaving? And what part do you play in the weaving?

Laylla: I love that.

Chelle: I love that.

Laylla: I absolutely love the hanging by the thread but still creating aspect. Just like you said at the beginning, sometimes you look at a deck, a new deck, and it gives you a slightly different perspective, one little nugget. This one gives lots, but just that nugget there of hanging but still creating for this card just gives it so much more, I don't know, I really like that. Something to chew on.

Dina: I think that, I heard somebody say, I don't know who it was, that like tarot should help you with where you are. You know, like where, what, what energies are you in and how can you, if it's amazing, great, but like, often times we turn to tarot, we turn to readings when we're, like the Hanged One, we're turning that Rubik's Cube over and trying to figure something out. And, and so that's a lot of what this deck is and the archetypes are. It's about the fact that all of us human beings, we go through this, these, these things, we go through these life seasons, these situations. We've all come, we've all pretty much been through all 78 of these archetypes in our lives. Maybe, maybe not if you're super duper young, but I promise you all guys, you know, you will get there. And, and so it's like, how, how can you learn and be, like keep evolving and keep going through these like judgment cycles where you're like, 'All right, I'm like this next better version of myself.' But that's, that's sort of the work that this deck was, or at least for me as well. It's, it's not so much trying to figure out like, 'Does, do they like me? Are they going to ask me out on a date?' Like, who cares?

Laylla: Yeah. But talking directly to you, this deck does that beautifully. You said you use it regularly for a single pull. I know Chelle was doing that as well, pulling three cards with it, pulling a card.

Dina: Yeah, every morning I pull a, a card to check the energy of the day, and I do a little reading, a little channeling, a little, you know, and a lot of, a lot of the entries of the, of the book, you'll see in like real time, like where, where we were in time as I was writing as well. Like, I think I was like writing when like Trump was inaugurated for the second time, and that's in there, you know. There's, there's all like little stories because if you, if you have a hard time with a card, you need to be able to connect it to your life. And then you'll be able to, to be like, 'Oh, I understand that archetype,' you know, that's...

Laylla: Or if a card is stalking you, right, Chelle?

Chelle: Well, yeah, yeah. But again, you know, I, I circle back to, I look at this as a gateway to create a deeper connection with stones and crystals.

Dina: Yeah.

Laylla: And maybe that carnelian is saying something to you. You know, carnelian is the stone sometimes of help, it's like the crystal version of caffeine, right? So it helps you get the things done that you don't really want to get done. So it's almost like I would say like, what are we avoiding?

Chelle: Social media.

Dina: Well, there you go.

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: All right. Well, thank you so much, Dina, for joining us. This has been an absolutely wonderful conversation, and thank you for this deck, you and Melissa both.

Dina: Oh my goodness, thank you so much for having me. It was such an honor to talk to you both. Thank, if, you guys, if anybody doesn't have the deck and you want to get it from my store, I sign them. So, shop...

Laylla: Oh, please, give us the information how they can get, how they can get in touch with you.

Dina: Yeah, so, and don't, and Jeffrey Bezos has enough frigging money, don't buy it from Amazon. Um, shopamityvilleapothecary.com. We, I sign all the copies, and we even do like little stickers and little pins. We like throw in, I love mail because I'm a Gen X girl and we had pen pals. So like, good mail with like extras is really important. There's nothing worse, you know that Amazon box does not hit as well as a good put-together package, let's be real, and we send nice mail.

Laylla: Right. Does not have the good energy, does not have the special touch, and does not have Dina's signature. So, how fun would that be? So, check out your website. What's your, what's your Instagram?

Dina: The Instagram, so my personal Instagram is Dina L. Rosenberg, D-I-N-A L. R-O-S-E-N-B-E-R-G. The shop's Instagram is @amityvilleapothecary. Also, TikToks are the same, Dina L. Rosenberg, Amityville Apothecary, all the same.

Laylla: You also have a podcast. What's your podcast?

Dina: Oh my gosh, you guys are like, you're, you're hired as my publicist. We have a podcast called Apothecary After Dark, that just went into its fourth season.

Laylla: Oh, congratulations.

Dina: Thank you, that's available everywhere. And this season we have some really exciting guests that we've had, that we're having on, that we've had on. And the last thing I'll tell you guys is save the date and make your plans because April 24th and 25th of 2027, we hold a conference. It is called Alchemy Academy. It is a two-day event, and we have all expert speakers. Saturday is a tarot day, and Sunday is a magic day.

Laylla: Oh.

Dina: So, our tarot faculty is Mary K. Greer, Stephanie Caponi, um Melissa Cynova, and, oh my god, who is the fourth? And Meg, Meg Jones Wall.

Laylla: Wow, that's quite a lineup.

Dina: On the second day, it's all things magic. We have Colin Bedell, who is a very well-known astrologer. We have Nicholas Pearson, who's written so many books on crystals, Crystal Basics, Archetypal Witching Stones. We have Abiola Abrams, who is a creator of Hay House. And we have, oh my god, Marcella Kroll, who is also an amazing tarot writer but also is currently um doing a book on protection magic, so she'll be doing protection magic.

Laylla: Where can they get, where can they get information on that event?

Dina: So, information on that event is alchemyacademyschool.com. So, come hang with us because what I want to tell you is that we limit it to 100 people, and the speakers stay the entire time, and it's interactive. So like, you could talk to the speakers, they sign books. It's an amazing community. It's not like, I've been to conferences that have like 500, 600 people, and you're not seeing anybody. This past um May, we had Judika Illes, and she was like signing everybody's books. It was the first time she had talked, talked in person in six years. Like, it was like, so we, because of our, our bookshop and our relationship with all the publishers, we are able to get like amazing people. It's going to be insane. So, get your tickets and, and make your travel plans and come see us.

Laylla: Well, thank you so much, Dina, for joining us on Back on the Broomstick. We will definitely put up links to everything. And thank you, Cliff. Thank you, Cliff, very, very much for the intro. We really appreciate it. And thank you to all of the listeners out there. Please like, subscribe, give us some reviews. We really appreciate it, and it helps the show out.

Chelle: Dina, thank you so much for taking the time with us tonight. We appreciate it so much.

Dina: Oh my gosh, anytime. You ever want to do like spellwork on the air, let's like light some shit on fire. We can do a, a fucking cow tongue, whatever you want. Who do we have to fuck up?

Laylla: All right, you know what, we might take you up on that. We are kind of fuck around and light a cow tongue on fire kind of witches, so...

Dina: Oh my god, listen. Let me tell you.

Laylla: We'll get into it. We'll do, we'll sling some tarot, we will sling some spells, we'll do, we'll do a little magic sometime. We'll have you back.

Dina: So fun. Exactly.

Laylla: All right.

Chelle: Thank you so much to Dina for joining us on Back on the Broomstick, and thank you all for listening to this episode. We are off in the wilds of Sherman, New York, playing around at Brushwood Folklore Center, dancing around the fire, going to workshops, meeting listeners, meeting new friends, and having a wonderful time in the fairy woods.

Laylla: So, we hope you all have a great week while we are out doing our witch-maxing stuff. And again, thank you, Dina, so wonderful, and we love this deck so much. It's actually with me out here at Brushwood, so if you see me here, I'll pull a card for you.

Chelle: I totally think you should call her out on that, by the way.

Laylla: Well, actually, I think you should too. We hope you all enjoyed this episode. We will see you next week for another episode with a fabulous witchy person. And until then, be wise, be wicked...

Chelle: ...and keep it witchy.
