Laylla: Welcome to Back on the Broomstick, a modern witch's spoken word grimoire, where two witchy friends from way back are reconnecting to their pagan roots after a long period of mundanity. We're rewalking the path of the wise and trying out all the latest spells, rituals, and magical theory in today's witchcraft and pagan practices. So grab your wand and your incense, your cauldron and your crystals, and join us as we get back on the broomstick.

Laylla: Hi, and welcome to Back on the Broomstick. I'm Laylla, and this episode is all about Lughnasadh, the festival of the first fruits of the harvest and the beautiful gift that is late summer. Traditionally celebrated on August 1st, Lughnasadh marks the midpoint between the summer solstice and the autumn equinox. It's named for Lugh, a deity associated with mastery, magic, craftsmanship, and skill. So while this sabbat is often celebrated with bread, grain, and gratitude for the land, it is also a powerful time to honor the gifts we have cultivated within ourselves: the talents we were born with, the skills we earned through practice, and the knowledge that may help carry us and our communities through the colder seasons ahead.

Chelle: And I'm Chelle, and because I am challenged in the spelling department, I have traditionally referred to this as Lammas. Honestly, because it's just easier to spell. No other reason.

Laylla: You know, a lot of people do that. Lughnasadh has a lot of extra consonants in it, and it's a little weird. We're not sure how to say it.

Chelle: If you do it phonetically, it looks like lug-nass-add. But yeah, Lammas. Lammas, L-A-M-M-A-S, Lammas. So, we are all we're going to talk about all things Lammas. We're going to talk about being in between the spokes, because Laylla and I spent some time going to a wonderful place called Brushwood. We were a little remiss on a lead-up to Lammas, to Lughnasadh. That's true. That's very true. So, we're going to talk about in between the spokes. So, this is going to be our Lammas episode on Lammas, but we are going to talk about what's going to carry us through from now through the next season. We were out in Brushwood in the middle of nowhere. You wouldn't let me bring my laptop, and I think we got a little behind on putting out Lughnasadh episodes, but that's okay.

Chelle: I did have a rule, and it was a no-laptop, no-work rule. And we were going to try to do some things while we were there, but we were just having a good time being witches and—

Laylla: We were, and we were very, very busy kind of, I guess, celebrating a little bit of Lughnasadh.

Chelle: A lot of interesting conversations came out of our time at Brushwood this year. And first of all, I recommend it for anybody who hasn't been out there, and those listeners who have been there, you know what I'm saying. Gives you that, I think when when we go out to the Sirius Rising festival, it is in that point between the summer solstice and Lammas. I mean, granted, it's a little closer to Lammas, but you still got like that summer solstice energy when it starts.

Laylla: It's still after the solstice. It's still summertime. You've got that energy, that god energy, that bright sunshine.

Chelle: But it feels like you start to transition while you're there. And there's a lot of magical experiences to be had there, no matter what your flare or flavor. And it does kind of give you a transition. Maybe it's because our weather was a little bit chilly, I don't know. But I personally kind of felt a shift, and through some conversations is where we birthed the idea for this episode.

Laylla: And not just a shift in the energy, because part of the beauty and the, I guess, the dark underbelly of Lughnasadh is that we're in the middle of summer, and it's gorgeous, usually, bright and sunny, and things are growing. But behind the scenes, the sun is actually slowing down. The days are getting shorter now.

Chelle: And things are actually starting to die. It just doesn't—it—it's not visually prominent yet.

Laylla: Yeah, and and we've talked about the themes of Lughnasadh and what it means and that in other episodes, and we'll put links to those in the show notes. But the other thing that being at Brushwood reminded us, not just that fall and winter is coming, but that we have skills to share. And part of this holiday, part of this sabbat, is celebrating the god Lugh. And he is a master of many things. He's a master of a lot of skills, leadership, crafts, all sorts of things. And so while being at Brushwood, one of the things that we were celebrating was learning from other people, sharing the skills that we have, and picking up new skills and learning new things from all sorts of other witches and pagans and magical folk.

Chelle: And you know, I think that was where I had a spectacularly glorious time this year at Brushwood. I was there last year very briefly, not enough days, that is for sure. And prior to that, it had been a long time since I had been out there.

Laylla: Far too long. It's a great place to reconnect to your magical self.

Chelle: It really is. And you, I guess, you don't realize it, and it's easy to say until you're in the position of it's been a while and you go back and you're in the middle of reconnecting. But I think the thing that that really struck me is, and I will complain about this about every single festival we ever go to till the end of time, so many great workshops, not enough time slots.

Laylla: You want to clone yourself so that you can go to all of the workshops at all of the times.

Chelle: At all of the times. And then you're like, "Oh, this one looks really good." And then you're like, "Shit, I'm teaching a workshop at this time. I don't want to. I want to go to their workshop instead." But to be able to go to as many as we were able to, and and obviously, like I said, we weren't able to go to all of the ones we wanted to due to just time constraints and scheduling.

Laylla: And needing to sleep, because—

Chelle: And needing to sleep, and eat.

Laylla: Sorry, Joe, I really wanted to go to two of your workshops, and I woke up late both times.

Chelle: Joe, I just got to say, I feel you, because I had two 9:00 AM workshops. I—I get it. I get it. I wanted to be there with Laylla, but I needed a day to sleep in because they railed me with two 9:00 days. But anywho, you know, you get to learn from all of these fabulous, wonderful, magical, spiritual people. But what I think is equally tantalizing is that we get to share, too. You know, it's not us just attending and absorbing. We get to kind of branch out our knowledge to others and kind of share our what we know and share our little things and and the things we're into. And it—it just—it also reminded me of of things that I know how to do and I'm good at, and I'm just lazy. And I got a spark at Brushwood. I was touched by an element, which you and I have talked about, and I have been sparked to kind of redelve into some skills that I have that I've just blown off because of laziness.

Laylla: Mhm. You know, it's interesting. We've—this is going to be a little tiny bit of a tangent, but you you did talk about connecting with that element and and really working with this where you hadn't before. And we've talked a little bit about a deity that I have started working with mostly because he said so. And that's not really something that I have experienced a lot before. Most of the time when I have worked with a deity, it has been through a need of mine or I have reached out.

Chelle: Not a demand.

Laylla: Yeah, I've had a deity be like—and and it's a little weird to me that all of these synchronicities keep jumping out and pointing—and I'll say it, it's Odin, because, you know, he's kind of been an asshole. But it seems like everywhere I turn—

Chelle: Watch your mouth, woman.

Laylla: He knows he's an asshole. So, but everywhere I turn, there's something that reminds me of him. And this was no no different. From the very first ritual, now, at Brushwood, they have altars, they have areas that are dedicated to each of the elements. And in the east, there's obviously a lot of yellow, and they had this big, huge God's eye. It was maybe seven, eight feet tall, and it was made of different large branches of trees from the land, and it was woven all through. And that has been there since forever, even going, yeah, decades. And this ritual, they actually replaced that God's eye with a crow, a raven statue. Now, hello, God's eye, raven. And then when it was burning, as this God's eye is burning in the fire for that night, I could see the hanged man symbol as the each branch fell off of this form. It was left with what looked kind of like an upside-down, fancy figure four, which is like the the hanged man hanging. So, yeah, and and that was just the first of many things that happened throughout this that have been happening, I'll admit, but a lot at this at this festival. So, you know, there's a lot that we can learn from from the messages that we're getting from other people. And so it was very interesting to to see all of that come out. But one of the conversations that we had while we were talking about all these interesting things was that we love sharing our workshops, but sometimes we have trouble because it feels like, "Oh, this is just something that everyone knows. Why should I give this little tidbit, because oh, everybody knows about this tarot and journaling thing." And—

Chelle: It feels insignificant to me, maybe, because it's common, but I forget that other people don't know these things sometimes.

Laylla: Yeah, you have so many tarot decks, it's probably easy to forget sometimes that not everyone has access to that, or has the wealth and breadth of knowledge that you have because you have those tarot decks, you know? And and so it got us thinking that sometimes we can take the skills that we have—people do this, we do it, other we see other people do it—take the skills that we have for granted and and don't celebrate them. Don't celebrate what we know, and and maybe sometimes are afraid to share what we know.

Chelle: And you know, something else to kind of go with that, not just sometimes forgetting when you're when you're speaking about it that not everybody is at the same starting level of knowledge, but the other part of that is, and in this this was something that really kind of smacked me in the face at Brushwood, too. I had someone there call me out and basically say, "I know you have this skill and ability, and I would like you to do it." And I was like, at first, I was like, "Who the hell am I to be doing this?" And I'm like, "Well, you know, I do have that skill and ability, and I should do this." And although I said I would, other stuff came up and I ended up not doing it. But it wasn't out of being scared or thinking that I wasn't able or or good enough. But it was a good reminder that I have skills that maybe I haven't been utilizing, and you know, I'm I'm talking about this on a magical level, but this could mean anything, and even in the real world, even in your freaking mundane piece of shit job that you got to go to 9:00 to 5:00 every day. Sometimes we forget we have skills, and they fall by the wayside until someone calls you out to ask you to use it, and that happened to me.

Laylla: Yeah, and and sometimes these are skills that that come very naturally to us, and so we just we we take it for granted. Or sometimes there are skills that we had to work really hard for, and so maybe we're ashamed that it didn't come naturally, or maybe we're ashamed that we had to put so much work into it and it seems to come so easily to other people. There's a lot of reasons why we might not honor those skills, or use those skills, or or even think that they're worth anything.

Chelle: I think the other piece of it, too, can be, not always, I'll just put it out there. I am specifically talking about the fact that I'm a Reiki Master and very rarely use that. Do, but very rarely. So, really, what it comes down to, I think, for me is, with Reiki, I think in particular, is I went through a lot of stuff to go through the process of becoming a Reiki Master and all that is entailed in that, and all of the time and and energy, both on a mundane and spiritual level, that is involved in that. And I think once I got my Reiki certification, I was just a little burned out for a minute.

Laylla: Yeah.

Chelle: You like like you know what I mean, you know how when you like, you know, and not just something that you get certified in, but anything that maybe you deep dive or whatever, you know, you spend a lot of time and months and months and months, and then you're just like, "All right, I need a minute." And I think that's part of what it was with me as well, is that I just I I had a little burnout after actually getting the Reiki Master.

Laylla: Yeah, and and that's another thing, too, is, you know, sometimes there are skills, maybe, that we have overused at some point, or maybe that too much has been asked of us and we don't want to do it anymore. And you know, take tarot, for example. There there was a time when we were doing workshops, I was giving classes, I was doing private tarot readings and tarot parties pretty much regularly, a lot.

Chelle: And then you vowed to not do it, and you didn't for decades.

Laylla: Yeah, and then I stopped because—well, I wouldn't say decades, but it was a very long time. And I was burned out. It was too much. It had gotten to be too big of a burden to bear. And just recently, I have gotten very much back into it in the last year or so and and found that joy and reconnected with that energy. And and I guess it it seems like we're getting a little bit off-tangent, but what we're really talking about is what to celebrate, is that we're celebrating Lugh, we're celebrating this god who is the epitome of mastery and craftsmanship and skill. Uh, you can find references to him working with magic and being a good warrior. I mean, whatever talent you're looking for, he's the god that you want to talk to if you want to talk to about practice or honoring that skill. So, you know, we're talking about a wide variety of skills that we have, some we use regularly, some we don't, some we trained and then stopped, and some that, you know, maybe we feel weird about using. I don't know, but the the thing is here is that we're talking about reconnecting with that, reconnecting with the idea of being proud of of what you know how to do.

Chelle: And and celebrating that, too. Not just being proud of it, but celebrating. We are all balls full of knowledge, and we should celebrate that.

Laylla: Yeah, and and and I love sharing that, which is why I like doing festivals and workshops and presenting, because sharing that knowledge, not just what I have, but what other people have. And I found that when I was in workshops, particularly this past week, especially the ones that I taught, I learned a lot from the people that came to my workshops. You know, we would be going through something and and people would ask amazing questions or share wonderful experiences or their own views on what we were talking about. And I think we had some phenomenal, phenomenal discussions with people that were about their knowledge, even in the midst of like my workshop or or one of your workshops.

Chelle: And I think the other wonderful thing is also, like, you know, I did a bunch of tarot workshops, and I had folks there that were very familiar with tarot. I had I had a couple at one of my workshops that have been reading tarot almost as long as I've been alive. And that's a minute or two. And to be able to give folks a perspective that I have found works for me, and have kind of that light bulb go off in their head and they're like, "Wow, I never thought of that," or, "You know, I never thought I could do that with tarot," or, "I never felt that I had quote-unquote permission to go outside of what the little booklet tells me to do." And to be able to impart things that I've picked up, things I've learned, things that that I've honed in over the years, and impart that on people of varying levels of skill is just fun and amazing and rewarding, and I think that it it just is wonderful to share info and skill as it is to receive someone else's information or skill.

Laylla: Yes, and I think that if we take it back to like the harvest metaphor, because Lughnasadh is the first harvest. It's the festival of first fruits. It's the celebration of the first things that you are able to harvest from your garden. And in the mundane world, in the physical world, people are gathering their first tomatoes and cucumbers and corn from their gardens. In the magical world, the idea here is to reassess where you're at. What types of magical goals have you set in your life, and where are those right now? You know, where where are you feeling, and what can you grow from here? So if we bring it back to like the harvest idea, the seed is the knowledge that you can share, is the skills that you have that you can share to other people.

Chelle: But now you've honed in those skills, and I think part of the harvest theme is imparting your skill and ability onto others.

Laylla: Right, that's that's the seed part. Yep, the seed is the you imparting that onto other people. And so give that seed to other people, and then, like I was saying, by sharing some of my knowledge and by listening to what other people were sharing back, that was giving like a really great loop of their learning, I'm learning, you know, we're all getting new things out of this. It's not just a static, one-way street. So there's also the idea that in of honoring people that you learn from, too, you know, and and that's what can nourish you, is like learning from other people. So that's like the next part. So you plant the seed, you've grown the grain now, and you get nourishment from that. So you give to other people, they give back to you, and that's kind of that feedback loop of of nourishment of the grain.

Chelle: But I also think that the thought process behind Lammas and and that whole harvest theory and tying in Lugh is kind of this master of all crafts. It also could be a time, you know, like like, for example, my experience at Brushwood and in my time at Brushwood has has kind of geared me towards working on some specific areas. And they are areas, one of them is is somewhat unfamiliar, and one I have very high skill level in. But this is also a good time to maybe pick something new to start. You know, maybe you want to start something, because Lammas is the first harvest of three. So it's not like it's too late for that. So it's it also could be a good time, maybe you want to learn a new skill, or pick a new skill or hobby.

Laylla: Yeah, Lughnasadh is not just the first harvest. It's also a time to plant for a late fall or early winter crop. So, you know, in the real world and in the magical world, you could do either one of those things.

Chelle: I was going to say, just like in your garden, you know, now is about the time that you're starting to plant those kind of fall gourd-type things. Similar thing, you can still plant seeds and start new things at this first harvest.

Laylla: And the other thing with a seed isn't just you passing on your knowledge to other people. Some, you know, sometimes you bring a seed in. You want to start something new in your life, like like you were just saying with the fall, uh, planting now for a fall harvest, or for a early winter harvest analogy. So that seed, that seed idea can be you giving the seed of knowledge to someone else, or or you planting that seed for something new for you. And I think that's important with the whole idea of Lugh is he wasn't just happy about being good at things, you know. The idea isn't that he's just so good and everything's just so great and you can just stop there. Lugh is also, you know, the pursuit of excellence, the pur- you know, becoming a craftsman isn't just being good at it, it's working at being good at it. It's learning, it's practicing, it's honing your craft. You know, there's more to it than just that. And we can apply that to our magical lives, too.

Chelle: And Lugh is the master of art. So, I think the idea that, you know, not to just kind of touch stone on things, but to become a master as Lugh is.

Laylla: And I think part of becoming a master is also honoring what you know and honoring where you're at. You don't have to always be the best at it. You can just be good at it. You can, you can have a skill that you really like. For example, I love to paint. I am terrible at it. I think most of my stuff looks like a preschooler drew it, but I have a really good time, and it's not like I'm trying to sell it or anything. And it's something that I enjoy doing, particularly with tarot cards and with, uh, with other type of magical journeying. I have, like the last year or so, been very artsy-craftsy with it. It's okay that I am not Picasso. I get a lot of fun and enjoyment out of this skill, quote-unquote. I'm having a blast with it, and it, it helps me to get into a very magical mindset when I, when I pick up those colored pencils or the paints or whatever. So it doesn't have to be something that you have completely mastered. It can be a skill that you just find enjoyment in, even if it's not something that you do well.

Chelle: I also think that with Lugh, I think Lugh challenges, challenges us to kind of embrace, um, versatility because as a master of many things, I think part of Lugh's lesson is for us to be equally versatile and maybe the lesson here isn't just to be completely and 100% skilled in one thing, but I think that versatility is an important lesson here this time of year.

Laylla: Yes, I think that's true. I just learned this story about Lugh that kind of, um, exemplifies that, where Lugh was trying to get through the gates into Tara. And one of his titles, and I'm, I apologize, someone who speaks Welsh or Gaelic, please tell me how to pronounce this. I couldn't find the pronunciation. Future Laylla will pop in here with the correct one if I can find it before this goes out. But Samildánach is one of Lugh's titles, and it means being skilled in a lot of things, basically. And so the story goes that he arrived at the gates to Tara, and the gatekeeper wouldn't let him in. So the gatekeeper says, "What can you do for Tara? Why should we let you in?" And Lugh says, "I'm a smith, a warrior, a poet, a harpist, a healer, and a craftsperson." And the gatekeeper looks at his list and he says, "Yo, dude, we have all those people. We, we don't need you. We, we already have all of those people." And Lugh, because he's very wise, said, "Well, do you have anyone who can do all of those things?" And the gatekeeper was like, "Well, no. Well, I guess you can come in. Come on in." So because of his versatility, he was able to gain entry into Tara. And, and so that kind of goes back to the point that you were saying, is that you can have a lot of different interests. You know, we're, we're not talking about specializing in something. You know, we're talking about the love of learning. We're talking about the idea of honoring who you are and what you know, and being proud of what you know, being happy in the skills that you have, whatever level they're at, you know. I, yes, I am working at being better at art, but I don't need to work really hard at it. It's something that I get enjoyment from. It's not my job. And so it's at a level that I'm happy at. You know what I'm saying? It's, Right. it's something that I can be proud of my skill in and gain enjoyment from, even though I'm not a master.

Chelle: And I don't think the lesson here is mastery. I think the lesson here is is literally versatility.

Laylla: Yes, absolutely. And versatility works in witchcraft, too. You know, a lot of times people lately, especially, have this idea, or at least they did, maybe it's changed a little, but people like to know what type of witch they are. You know, they want to know if they're a, a green witch or if they're an herb witch.

Chelle: Or kitchen witch.

Laylla: Or, you know, like a dragon witch or,

Chelle: Or a crystal witch or whatever.

Laylla: And you don't have to do that. You know, you can be more versatile than that. Usually, even if people pick something like that and say, "Well, I'm a green witch," they still learn a lot of different things that wouldn't necessarily fall under what you might call green witch. And, and that's part of being versatile in your practice. It's, it's good to learn as much as you can. You don't have to master all of it. But, you know, if you want to, go ahead and dive right in and be proud of those skills and, and be, be interested in learning and open to learning new things.

Chelle: And also, you know, take, take time to look at what talents you have that have kind of either, you know, come to fruition or have grown in your life thus far because, you know, sometimes you plant a seed and it's a dud. And, you know, maybe you, you planted a seed a while back and maybe that's not the path you should go down or, or the journey you should take or, or what have you. You know, maybe it's also a time to take a look at what talents or what have you have grown and what needs to kind of be fed more and what needs to be weeded out.

Laylla: Yeah, and, and something that you could do to kind of honor that in a magical way would be to get yourself into a meditative state, have a journal there,

Chelle: Of course.

Laylla: you know, picture yourself walking the path to Tara and getting to that gate. And when the gatekeeper asked you, "What skills do you bring to Tara that should bring you in?" what, what skill would your answer, you know, what would your answer be? What would you say? Think about that. Or, or let meditation you answer that and see what answer comes out of your, your higher self's mouth. You know, it doesn't have to be something like, "I'm a rocket scientist." It could, you know, it could be, "I'm really good at cooking." Well, maybe not you, Chelle, but it could be, Not me. but you're great at tarot. You're awesome at herbs. You know, you could bring up all the things that, that you are good at. You know, what would your answer be if you were standing at the gates to Tara? How would you answer that gatekeeper? And, and meditate on that, or maybe do some automatic writing on that and see what comes out. Just make lists. Maybe you're really proud, maybe you know, maybe you know exactly what you would say. Write them all down. Celebrate those things.

Chelle: Of course, you would have to bring journaling into it. But, you know, it, it is also, I do like to look at the transitioning nature that's going on right now, too, as well, and I don't want to forget that and, and leave that out. Sunflowers, I'm starting to see sunflowers, and there's magic in that. But, but sunflowers, um, they do kind of remind me to, to do some of that sun magic still. There's still energy in the sun. It hasn't, it hasn't totally gone away yet, for, for God's sakes. So when I, when I look out in nature this time of year as well, you know, not to kind of get off the skill thing, but I also want to just, just remind folks that there's still a touch of sun out there to continue your sun magic.

Laylla: There's a lot of sun out there. Well, maybe not right now. Depends on where you're at. Yeah, depends on where you're at. But between now and Mabon, you know, we still got a lot of sun left out there, and I don't want folks to forget to honor that because the sun is a beautiful thing, especially come February when it doesn't feel like we get a lot. And I know that Mabon is a harvest celebration, and, you know, we keep talking about heading towards fall, but it's full-on summer. It is only August 1st, July 31st, whatever day this comes out on. We are at the beginning of August. This is like the full-on summer in the Northeast USA. It's still hot. Okay, maybe not right now, but most of the time, it's still full-on summer. And for me, I think that's part of the, the magical weirdness of this season is that the sun is gorgeous and glorious, and my grass is growing and lush, and my gardens, my gods, I have so many gardens this year. We even have freaking chickens. But everything is growing and getting bigger, and the flowers and the, the farmers markets and the farm stands on my road are starting to be overflowing. But we're really on the downswing, and we really have to start preparing for winter. And so I think that's kind of like the delicious dichotomy of this season is it's so full and bright of sun, but

Chelle: But you're getting that tickle of, "Don't forget what time of year we're getting to."

Laylla: Exactly, exactly. And, and this is that first cold breath reminder that that's coming. So, yeah, I agree with you. Definitely celebrate the sun. Drink that sun tea. Go outside when it's warm and celebrate, you know,

Chelle: Yeah, go to a local fair, festival, and dance out in the yard, listen to music.

Laylla: roll yourself a celebratory joint of some freshly dried lavender, fresh dried rose petals, you know, maybe some freshly dried chamomile, something lovely and flowery and beautiful, and, and, you know, have a little puff of that and send that out to the universe to Lugh in thanks. You know, part of celebrating this season is also celebrating sacrifice. And sometimes we celebrate the god as the sacrifice, but this particular celebration is Lugh celebrating his foster mother's sacrifice. And she sacrificed her life to bring agriculture to Ireland. And so you can celebrate that as well, the, the bright sun of Lugh and, and the sacrifice, the darker, earthier sacrifice of the goddess.

Chelle: And also a sacrifice, you know, there's a part of you that you do sacrifice when you are learning and honing and sharing a skill. So whether that be time or energy or whatever you're expending with your skill. So there is also sacrifice in being skilled. So celebrate your skill, and also celebrate the sacrifices you've made to obtain that skill.

Laylla: Yeah, and that's, you know, sometimes that is a gift in itself, being able to thank someone for giving you a skill. As the first harvest, I know I keep harping on that, but the next three, the next couple holidays are harvest holidays. And even in, in the United States, we have Thanksgiving, which comes right around that same time. Right. And so there's a lot of harvest coming up here in the next few months. And one of the things that we can harvest is gratitude. And tying that back to Lugh and to skills, sometimes we can have gratitude for someone else's labor or someone else's skill, you know. We should remember to acknowledge where our skills came from, who taught us. You know, maybe we need to go back and say thank you to those people, you know, that gave us some of those skills. That can be a way of giving back and honoring the season, as well.

Chelle: And that could also be a good like mini ritual or quasi meditation to perform during this time between this particular spoke is, you know, maybe, maybe you put something out there verbally or maybe you write something down in your book of shadows or your journal, or maybe you write a letter to someone who's been a mentor to you. And maybe offer your appreciation or your thanks for a skill they've imparted on you or knowledge they've imparted on you, or meditate and, and send energy out into the universe or to a specific person who has assisted you in gaining a, a particular skill or knowledge that you're particularly fond of having. And make it about gratitude, and gratitude for those who've imparted the knowledge, and gratitude for yourself for being able to absorb that knowledge, retain it, and hopefully give it back out to others.

Laylla: I love that. And before we close, that, that works in beautifully to something that I just read in the book, Braiding Sweetgrass. And that is by Robin Wall Kimmerer. And in Braiding Sweetgrass, she talks about the idea of the honorable harvest and the idea that we should live in harmonious connection with the land and with everyone else, and this idea of thankfulness. She mentioned the idea of these practices that can help us have a reciprocal relationship with others around us. These are what they are. I'm just going to read them to you. This is all in regards to harvesting. So harvesting, whether you're harvesting plants or animals or however you're harvesting. So ask permission of the ones whose lives you seek and abide by the answer. Never take the first, never take the last. Harvest in a way that minimizes harm. Take only what you need and leave some for others. Use everything that you take. Take only that which is given to you. Share it, as the Earth has shared with you. Be grateful. Reciprocate the gift. Sustain the ones who sustain you, and the Earth will last forever. And I thought those ideas were, were beautiful way to look at harvesting and a beautiful way to look at being in community, I guess, honoring your skills, sharing your skills, honoring the harvest and sharing the harvest. And, you know, I think going forward from now until, until Mabon, that's a, a beautiful way to be and a beautiful way to honor Lugh and Lughnasadh.

Chelle: You know, it's, it's, it's really hard to have anything to say after those words, to be honest. I mean, They're beautiful, right? They are beautiful, but I think that also really just kind of encompasses this spoke that we're in. You know, we're, we're in between these two spokes now, and that really kind of sums that up.

Laylla: All right. Well, since we have spent the last couple weeks out in nature and honoring the Earth and honoring the energies of community and skills and sharing skills and knowledge, I think, I think we have come to the end of our conversation about Lughnasadh.

Chelle: We have come to the end of our conversation, but just real quick, to kind of loop back to the beginning to our, our time at Brushwood, I just want to give a quick shout out to our listeners that we were able to connect with and meet, uh, meet with at Brushwood and that were able to come to our workshops. Uh, we appreciate you. We love you. And a special shout out to Alan because you fucking rock, dude. And to Cynthia and Cliff, best breakfast on the planet. I cannot even say that enough. So we love you guys and had a great time.

Laylla: To Amanda and David, to Ellen and JP and Alex, thank you guys so much. To everyone that I didn't name, thank you. We had a wonderful, wonderful time. Thank you all for coming to our workshops. Thank you everyone for sharing your knowledge, and thank you to Brushwood for hosting these amazing festivals. Oh, thanks, Brushwood. So we hope you all have a wonderful Lughnasadh and celebrate that whenever you want, by the way, whether it's August 1st or anytime between now and the middle of August. I think the actual date of Lughnasadh is August 7th.

Chelle: Yeah, it's one of those that kind of changes a little bit each year.

Laylla: It does because it's, it's, it's the thing where the two celestial, it's, it's a cross-quarter holiday. So that means that like the two

Chelle: The, the two celestial events around it dictate when it is.

Laylla: Exactly. It's the exact middle point between when those two things happen. So traditionally, we just celebrate it on August 1st. But technically, I guess it's August 7th. So celebrate it whenever you feel like, witches. No worries at all. And definitely celebrate going forward the idea of honoring yourself, honoring your skills, and honoring those harvests and those things that you have earned with your skills. So thank you so much for listening to this episode of Back on the Broomstick. We hope you will like, subscribe, give us some reviews, give us some stars. It really helps the show out, and it makes Chelle and I cackle like little witches.

Chelle: Guys, stay a while and stay wicked. Enjoy the sun, honor your skills, and keep it witchy.
