Welcome to Back on the Broomstick, a modern witches spoken word grimoire, >> [music] >> where two witchy friends from way back are reconnecting to their pagan roots after a long period of mundanity. >> We're re-walking the path of the wise and [music] trying out all the latest spells, rituals, and magical theory in today's witchcraft and pagan practices. [music] >> So, grab your wand and your incense, >> your cauldron and your crystals, >> and join us as we get [music] back on the broomstick. >> Hi, and welcome to Back on the Broomstick. I'm Layla and our guest today is Ash Glass, a Heathen practitioner, writer, teacher, and spiritual leader for the inclusive Elk Ridge Kindred. Ash currently serves on the board of directors for The Troth, a worldwide organization dedicated to inclusive Heathenry, and is also a member of the pagan folk band Kindred Crow. Their work explores how Heathen traditions, ritual, magic, and community can be carried forward as a living spiritual practice in today's world. Ash is also a self-described Heathen folklore nerd, or maybe I mean described you that way. >> [laughter] >> With a particular love for the myths, sagas, spirits, strange beings, and old stories that help shape modern Heathen practice. >> And I'm Shell, and I first came across Ash at the Sacred Space Festival conference that Layla and I love so much. It was through Kindred Crow that I actually encountered you and and became more familiar with you because I have attended to see to like the music side of weaving music into ritual and magic. So, that was my first encounter with you. So, we would like to welcome you, Ash, to Back on the Broomstick. >> Welcome. >> Thank you so much. I'm looking forward to this. Should be a fun night. >> Could you explain to us, Ash, what is modern Heathenry? Most of our audience are witches who describe themselves as witches or pagans. There are quite a few Heathens in our audience, but for those that aren't, could you explain what is a modern Heathen? What do they believe in in short? And how is that different from say modern witchcraft? >> Sure. Yeah, so for me my definition of my everything you hear tonight will be Heathenry according to me cuz that's what I know. >> That's exactly what we want to hear. >> Cool. So yeah, I I I don't know, you know, I'm not the be-all and all for anything, but for me a modern Heathen is someone that is using historical references from the Scandinavian regions and the Nordic countries. So that's Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Iceland, and reaches down into Germany. There's also some paths you could pull into Lithuania, Ukraine, Russia, that area. Um but you're using those as resources. So that's what that's where your base is. Those are the roots of your tree that you're planning. Um that's where you're pulling everything from, but you're taking those resources and you're applying them to this modern life. Um the modern piece is always very important to me. So again, a Heathen or a Norse practitioner will use those sources, use those to influence the gods that they pray to, the spirits they work with, and as much as they can, their viewpoint on the world. Um Heathenry, the way I practice it is very animistic. So we see the world around us as possibly being everything around you could have a soul. This microphone I'm speaking into, this computer I'm using, and the tree out my win outside of my window could all have a soul. So we need to interact with those as if they're beings. So we bring that into our practice. And I would say for anyone that was looking for a difference between witchcraft and Heathenry, there is witchcraft in Heathenry. Uh we have our own forms of magic. Um many of them would look similar to someone that was um into witchcraft. Um you could even look at some practices in witchcraft that were pulled from Heathenry. The United States, where I'm at, is a Germanic culture. So we we have inherited bits and pieces of that anyway. Um so it's kind of all around us. >> How many witches today work with the Elder Futhark in their practice? And that's directly >> That's a a direct thing that many many witches use that comes right from Norse practices. >> Yeah, the runes are huge. You see runes everywhere. >> Everywhere. >> Yeah, so and that's that's the important part as far as Heathenry for me. It's it's that firm grounding in that area of history of, you know, the Scandinavian regions. That's kind of the part that changes it. Um, I've got a really good friend that's a druid and and our practices are somewhat similar. And the big the big change is the spiritual the spirit relationships and the gods that we pray to. So, yeah, that's the big difference. I've got a little there in my mind there's a little bit of a difference between a Heathen and a Norse Pagan. That's been something that's really been kind of coming to the forefront of my practice in the last year. And I think for Heathens um, and I'm sure there's some corollaries in other practices as well. Heathenry kind of starts to embed itself in the way you see everything that you're interacting with. So, like even when I'm at work, I am also very Heathen. Um, I take what I say very very careful about what I say. If I I'm very uncomfortable signing pieces of paper in legally binding documents because of that. I've got an altar in my office which kind of makes some of my co-workers uncomfortable, but they get over it. But it is a daily outlook on life less than a daily practice. It is it is a lens through which everything is viewed. And then I think you have Norse Pagans, which is a very standard New Age practice that uses the Norse gods as the as the gods they pray to. And there's nothing wrong with either one of those. They're both great, but they're a little bit different. I was recently doing a um a couple day intensive on the power of words in Heathenry. And we kept bumping up against certain pieces like oaths was one of them. Um, so in my practice if you break an oath it's broken. And a lot of the um practitioners that weren't specifically Heathen and maybe they were just trying things out for the weekend or whatever. They're like, well, well, there's got to be like you can make you can make up for it or you can atone for it or some home or even like you can say you're sorry. I'm like, no. If you break an oath, it's broken. That doesn't mean that you should never you should never make an oath because you're scared you're going to break it, but you should know going in that this isn't 100% safe. There's not a guardrail for everything. You can mess up. Um and the important thing is not that not it's not to not mess up, but what do you do when you do mess up? How do you make a you know, how do you start refilling the well when you >> No, I like that. >> pulled too much from it. >> [laughter] >> Yeah, that the broken oath thing. I think I've heard that described something like if you drop a plate and it shatters, you can put the pieces back together, but it's not the same. It's still a broken plate and you you have to figure out where to go from there. >> It's a and that those broken oaths and those broken pieces and those mistakes we make there's much a part of us as anything is. So, you just take those in and you know, I've got I've got a scar on my leg from an accident I had when I was 18. There's a story there. There's a lesson in there. So, break an oath, learn from it, move on. >> [laughter] >> Thanks. One of the things that you mentioned is something that I'm very very interested in and maybe a little later we'll get into Odin kind of yeah, we'll we'll talk. But so, words and things like [laughter] that are very interesting to me, but uh I'm very interested in the animistic part of Norse paganism and in heathenry. That's something that is very much a big part of my practice as well and I understand that there's almost a shamanistic magic part of heathenry and Norse paganism. Could you talk to me a little bit about that? What is that called? Is is that a part of your practice and what is that? >> Yeah, so we can look at that in two buckets. Well, let's go with the animism first. Um so, the animism piece is again, you're you're acting like everything around or not you're acting you're treating everything around you as if it have has a soul and is a person and a being with its own. Yeah, 100%. Um so, that means you treat everything around you as if it has its own agency. So you ask you even your magical tools and your and your mundane tools you you talk to them. You have an agreement with them. You're not just going to grab a screwdriver and use it as a hammer. You're going to treat things a little bit better than you normally would in a commodity based society. I was a construction worker for a while and my hammer always had runes on it and it was like my being. Oh yeah. Yeah. Depending on how long I had it. >> My laptop already has a name. >> [laughter] >> Perfect. So yeah, so I I you know you have long-term tools that you use like going back to the hammers. I could break my hammer and that was I took that personally. I'm like oh I have this friend that I've had for the last 5 years that's been hanging on my hip is no longer here. So I treat those remains with respect. >> You work with your tools. You don't use your tools. You work with them. >> Yep, 100%. That then that goes to the relationship piece as well. If everything around us is a being then you don't have agency over them, but you have cooperative relationships with them and that goes for things you would consider as mundane items. There's the spirits around you. There's the plants in your yard and there's the gods. It's all just levels of relationship with beings of various power levels for lack of a better description. So it's a respectful way to treat the land and to treat everybody and everything. I don't treat an item any different than I would a person. I don't treat an animal any different than I would a person and that goes to that. That's even to like a thunderstorm. I'm not going to scream at a thunderstorm for knocking a tree down in my yard. I'm going to thank the thunderstorm for the rain that it gave and I'm going to thank it for not being any worse than it was. Cuz that storm has things it's trying to take care of too and it's such a co-creative like it just expands your community like I was saying earlier and you're you're able to work with and everything is a everything is a group project. >> [laughter] >> It just for me it's a it's a way to be much more thankful for everything around me and also just much more in the now and working with the things around me. So for me that's animism. As far as the the the shamanic style stuff, I wouldn't use use that term because there's some cultural stuff around that term totally. It's hard because it does you say that word and you know exactly what people are talking about right away. >> I'm actually glad that you pointed that out because I I don't mean to suggest that they're the same because I know that they are not. They have very similar some similar things but they come from very different backgrounds, they come from different cultures that may have similar values and like you said when I say the word shaman people understand what that means. So I apologize for kind of using it in that way but I'm just trying to figure out the magical system and the type of people that do follow this animistic, this very close relationship with the earth and with the energies of the land and with everything around them. >> Yeah, 100 100% I'll tell you yeah, totally got that. So there is a one of the main types of magic in heathenry or Norse paganism paganism is called seid. And there's a couple different aspects of that. One of which the most well-known version of it is or part of it comes from the saga of Eric the Red. And in that saga there is an entire I think it's about a chapter long sequence where a seer a seeress comes to a settlement. There's a famine and she goes in does a ritual to receive to ask spirits for guidance and ask for direction. And it describes everything she was wearing, what she brought with her, the attendants that were with her and as soon as it gets to where the ritual starts the the explanation stops and then it's over. So we miss all the nice meaty parts but we know that there was an oracular piece, we know there was talking to spirits to gain information. We assume that there would involved a trance of some kind through the use of singing. If I had to pull out like a big difference, the singing piece is very important cuz it is it appears from what we can tell the archaeological record that drums are not a very big thing for the Norse. We have yet to find an actual remain of a drum. But it does appear that singing would induce the trance state and singing while you were working and working on items and and made in doing magic was an important part of all this. So there were songs that would be sung to draw in spirits and to bring those spirits into a place where the seeress could then interact with them. So that's my partner Arena and I have a whole ritual based around that story that is from us some other trainings we've taken and we've we try to recreate that ritual the best we can and that practice the best we can. So it's very much an oracular divinatory practice that can be useful for anything. You can talk to ancestors, deities, land spirits and we even pull in deities from other pantheons. >> Now that sounds very cool. My one question to that is do they care if you can't carry a tune? Cuz yeah. Your girl [laughter] here can't. >> It doesn't seem to matter but that's another great place to put community in cuz I can't carry a tune. I play guitar cuz I can't sing. But when when 10 people are singing together it doesn't matter. >> Good. Okay, good. Phew. All right, cool. >> And then say there's also it's there's some references in some of the lore of weather control of far seeing or seeing through the eyes of other animals. Or other beings. Shapeshifting is a big part of it. We have stories. There's a one great story of a the king of Norway is trying to invade Iceland so his sorcerer turns into a whale to try to find where the best place for ships to land is and he's chased away by the land spirits of Iceland. So yeah, a lot of some werewolf magic. >> Now, why do you love these stories? Those are That sounds great. >> Oh, yeah, they're great. I mean, to to jump off on the stories real quick, if you like Lord of the Rings and like the D&D world and World of Warcraft and all that, that all directly comes from Norse mythology. >> You just hit on some of my favorite things. >> [laughter] >> You might already be heathen. >> Stop. Don't you start >> [laughter] >> having an argument with Odin lately. >> Good luck with that. >> That's what everyone keeps saying. >> You You You made threats. It's your fault. >> When I was a kid growing up, I read Lord of the Rings. I'm like, "Wow, this is great. Tolkien's a genius." Then I got older and I'm like, "Yes, Tolkien is still a genius, but he didn't invent all of that." >> [laughter] >> Like, it came from somewhere. And at least as far as I can tell, like our entire modern fantasy world, Norse mythology is kind of where it started for the most part. Rabbit trail, I'll get back to the magic. So, that singing piece, when we're doing these divinatory rituals, bleeds into other practices as well. Um so, we have Galder and Gander, which is the creation of The Galder in particular is the singing piece. So, when you're singing and you're chanting and you're using your breath, >> [gasps] >> that is a magical piece where you're imbuing things literally with your breath. Um speaking of Odin, for us the breath is a gift directly from Odin at the time of creation. So, every word you speak, your breath itself is has a magical component directly from the gods. So, as you're working on saying amulet for protection, so that practice of inscribing a rune on the amulet and then singing the words of those runes to the amulet and singing its purpose to the amulet and creating this powerful magical piece that is imbued with your energy, the energy of the gods, the energy of the runes, which by this point I've been worked with for so long, they've got their own energies, and you're just creating these items that have so much power. It's It's It's such a fulfilling practice. Like, you know, I've got guitars behind me. All of those guitars have runes on them somewhere that have been ritually put on. So. >> Ready to ready to work magic. >> [music] >> Grab onto your broomstick, witches. Back after these messages. Hey, Hecate. >> What's up? >> Mabon is almost here, which means I'm heading back to the underworld. I love Hades, but that man's decorating skills are bleak. Your altars always look fabulous. Help me. >> What I'd really like to do, Persephone, is I'd like to grab my torch and lead you down the path to the Witches Moon. I've pretty much decorated every crossroads with stuff from there. >> Perfect. I also need something for my mother. Every fall, Demeter gets upset and suddenly nothing grows and everybody's cold. So, if we can find her something sparkly enough to prevent seasonal devastation, that'd be great. >> Okay, seriously, the Witches Moon. It is going to be where you need to go to A, get something to please Demeter, and B, stock up for your trip down south. >> I'm looking at this website and sweet holy me, there is some absolutely stunning items on here. >> I'm always at this crossroads of do I buy more decks or do I buy more stuff? Sometimes I get all of it. >> Ooh, I'm signing up for the Witches Bounty. If Hades isn't going to buy me gorgeous magical jewelry, I'll do it myself. Plus, getting a witchy subscription box in the mail every month might make the dreary season in the underworld go by a little faster. >> Yes, they have all the goodies. Yes, they have all of the subscription boxes, but what we've we got is a collaboration of >> a giveaway between Back on the Broomstick and the Witches Moon. Our favorite online shop wants to give you not one, not two, but three magical boxes. One lucky winner will win the October The Witches' Moon subscription box, one will win the October Witches' Roots subscription box, and one will win the October The Witches' Bounty subscription box. >> If you would like to enter, follow us on either Facebook or Instagram or both. >> Follow The Witches' Moon on the socials. >> On our social, you are going to need to comment what box you would like to be entered for. >> That winner will be announced September 18th. >> Do all of the things because we got some good to give away. And The Witches' Moon, they are knocking it out of the park with this collab. >> you all, and thank you so much to The Witches' Moon. Stop over to their website thewitchesmoon.com, check out the Moon Market online store, sign up for your own witchy subscription box, and try your hand at our giveaway. And don't forget your tarot cards. >> Time to shop. >> [music] >> I And you are fresh back from, I believe, Pagan Spirit Gathering. You are just at Northeast Pagan Pride Day, I believe. And very, very busy person, running around, doing workshops, and performing at festivals. How in the world did you accomplish all of that? >> [laughter] >> What's funny, um, we were here at the house last night talking about that, and I did the math real quick in my head, and I was like, we have spent, uh, so far this year, just a little bit over halfway through the year, we've been at Pagan festivals for a month. So, an entire month of time, actual month, has been spent at festivals. So, yeah, um, I am very lucky to have a job that I'm I love a whole lot, and gives me tons of time off. So, at this point, my leave is expended, um, until October. We've got one more festival to do in October that that I'm definitely going to, but my travel is done. Carina's got some to do, but I am unable to go anywhere else. It's It's It's a lot of long hours in the car, so we listen to podcasts like yours. Um lots of music playlists ready to go, and yeah, lots of travel, but the festivals and the the community and seeing how different communities do things, it's worth every single minute of it. So. >> And I think actually that's a lot of what your workshops tend to focus on is community, is folklore and history, but a lot of it's community. Heathenry itself seems to be very community-based. Uh can you tell us a little bit about that? >> Yeah, sure. So, [clears throat] for me it always all of it always comes back to community. Um in my day job I work for a nonprofit, and the reason I do that is cuz it aligns with my values as a Heathen. I get to work in my local community and help my local community. So, not just on the the Pagan Heathen end of things, I'm doing this mundanely for lack of a better word as well. If you're thinking of specifically from a Heathenry, we're looking at cultures and populations that lived in very harsh environments, and environments where if you didn't have a community and people weren't cooperating and working together, people died. There are still, you know, law books, huge Iceland nerd, um there's still laws on the books in Iceland where if you don't bring a traveler indoors or you don't pick someone up alongside of the road that you're liable basically for manslaughter cuz the conditions are that tough. >> Wow. >> Um so, for me it always Yeah, it always comes back to community cuz we can talk about soli- solitary practitioners, we can talk about uh I'm I'm a rebel, I'm going to do it on my own. No one does it alone in anymore or or even back then, pre-Christian times, no one did it alone. I always joke around that if you can be a solo practitioner, and I'll put this in air quotes, um you are still surrounded by a community of spirits, wherever you are. There could be not no other humans for miles, and you have the plants outside, you have the beings around you. Um of course, the joke the joking side to that is, you know, it's like just think about that the next time you're in the shower. There's spirits everywhere. [laughter] So, um, I always try to push everyone and um, Heathenry is relationship-based. So, if you can make a strong relationship with your local community, your local land spirits, your local wildlife, your ancestors, all of that is community to me. So. >> Not to kind of just go back and start from the beginning, but a little bit. There is a a uptick in interest in modern Heathenry, um, going on right now. So, for a modern witch or modern pagan, what are some misconceptions, um, about having to precisely replicate the past, the mythology, the folklore, and all of that? >> I think the biggest miscon- misconception is that you can reconstru- you can do a completely authentic period practice today. I don't think it's possible. We have so many holes that the nothing's complete. We don't have a book that is here is the way to Heathen in 2026. Um, we have fragments of stories. All of our stories were written down by Christians. So, there is no unbroken line. There is no histor- historical way to do anything. And I was a social studies major in in college, so I always look back to the social aspects of it. The dates are fine, but you know, to hell with the dates. Why did they do these things? That's what I always look at. So, there was no historical practice then. All of this stuff was just piecemeal together by local groups. Um, and I think that's the biggest misconception. I can always see like, "Well, I'm practicing the way my forefathers practiced." Or I'm practicing the way that the pre-Christians practiced. No, you're not. There it's impossible. I wouldn't even say. >> how do you >> [laughter] >> suggest someone maybe take that step into learning or starting to try to practice modern Heathenry? What's step one? >> Yes, for me step one would be to make sure that Heathenry calls to you. Make sure those gods and those spirits are the ones that you hear. And then I do just start with the history. You know, despite of what all I just said, I would say get a copy of the Poetic Edda. The Poetic Edda is the closest thing we've got to a primary source. Start there. Read those stories. And then you can branch out from there. You can read all of this like for me like a Saturday night home fun for me is reading the Icelandic sagas. That's that yeah. >> You are a folklore nerd. Okay. >> Oh, yeah. >> [laughter] >> Definitely. And you can take all these historical pieces, but then don't forget that you're living in 2026. You're living now. You're living today. I think we all have a romanticism We've romanticized the past to think that oh, things were just so much different then. There was no technology, none of this, but everyone wanted the same things. We wanted to Our family and friends wanted you. You wanted to make sure they were taken care of. You wanted to have food to eat. You wanted to have enough wealth to survive. And that's if you just boil everything down, it's all the same things we want to do today. So we can look at those historical practices, read all of the history texts about whatever area you're interested in. This goes for more than just Heathenry. I could see any any pagan practitioner that's looking for a historically based practice can do this. And you but you take those stories and you relate them to today. There's no such thing as I hear a lot, "Well, you don't know how that You don't know that that is how a a Scandinavian person in 800 thought." No, I don't I I don't know what they were thinking. I know what I'm thinking. I know what this story says to me. And I can see how that can reflect in my life and how I can use that. And for anybody building a spiritual practice, the whole purpose is to have a spiritual practice that makes your life better today. That's the point. That's why we do all this. [laughter] So you can take those stories and bring them forward. Yeah. >> And relate it to your life and how it it fits with what you're working with right now, with what you're facing, with what you're handling, with what you're excited about. Relate all of those things to you and today. And I think that's it's a big part of a lot of this spirituality. It's very personal. It's and it's very much building it building it for yourself and building what works for you. >> What does true inclusiveness look like in modern Heathenry? You you are a part of the Troth organization, part of the board, and that is very inclusive. You know, and you've got you've got the classes and the workshops. What's it like to be completely inclusive, totally inclusive in modern Heathenry? >> Yeah, um definitely it's it's harder than it sounds because to be really inclusive, you have to bring in everyone. Um and that it doesn't matter why it The only thing that matters is why are they're there, and that's because these gods called to them, and this is the practice that speaks to them. Your race doesn't matter, um your sexuality doesn't matter, your gender identity doesn't matter. None of that matters. It's just what what is calling to you. And then you come into our community and the hard part about inclusion is making sure that you're not you're treating everyone the same, but not assuming everyone needs the same things. And those are two very It's like um equity and equity is great, but not every You need to fill the needs of the person, not just creating you know, create things. >> Like that that image where there's a fence and you have three different size boxes and three different size people. So, that's inclusivity to make sure everyone has the right size box that they need, whereas equity would be all the same size boxes and that doesn't work for everybody. >> I think you described that. >> [laughter] >> I I know exactly what graphic you're talking about. >> Yeah, that's what you're talking about, right? >> Yeah, totally. So, like I I am fairly able-bodied. If I go to a ritual, I can stand up all the time. The person next to me might not be able to, and those are the things we need to watch out for. So, when for instance, when we do rituals, it's sort of a Heathen stereotype that we stand all the time, and our rituals are not like that. Um we have chairs for everyone, and you are more than welcome to use them. We need to make sure that we're being conscious of, you know, hearing impairment, of maybe you're handing sheets out for a ritual piece, and the person can't read. That is a possibility. So, we need to be ready for those pieces. You also need to be ready for people to have different ideas and different opinions on things. Um and just keep in mind that, you know, we're we're trying to pull from these historical sources, but as I was saying earlier, there was no cohesive whole. So, this farm over here did things this way, and 2 mi down the road there was another farm that did things completely different. That's okay. >> Folk magic is much the same. >> 100%. Yeah, it's it's hard because like I said, you know, we're treating everyone as equals, but everyone is not the same. So, always trying to have that awareness of what people need, and trying to plug that in as best we can. Um and I would say even inclusivity has its limits um because if a person is like adamantly not inclusive, or a Nazi, or um racist, they're not welcome. >> What is it, the paradox of tolerance, or the paradox of intolerance? You you cannot tolerate intolerance. >> 100%. Uh I know there's a couple different takes on that with um I know one has penguins and sharks. If you allow both in, eventually you're just going to have sharks. Um I also heard a story of a bar where um everyone was very welcome, the bartender was friendly, a guy in a leather jacket comes in with some symbols on, and he just tells him to get out of the bar. And the guy's like, "Hey, why are you doing that?" He's like, "Well, that guy's a Nazi." "Well, you don't want his money?" And I'm like, "No, I don't want his money, cuz next week he'll bring a friend, and then after that, there'll be three friends." >> Then it's a Nazi bar. >> It's a Nazi bar. >> And nobody needs that. Yeah. >> No. >> Get them out first. >> So, constantly watching, constantly paying attention, getting to know people on a personal basis so you might be able to help them in ways that they don't even know they need. So just trying to trying to catch all the boxes. >> Now, I don't want this to take over too much of the rest of the podcast, but very quickly, one of the questions that I get a lot when people are interested in Heathenry and modern Norse Paganism is they are very afraid of running into Nazism, white nationalism. My spouse is a large white male and he kind of is a little quiet about his Heathenry because he is afraid of how he will be perceived. And he's he tries to be as open as he can so that people can see Heathenry in a positive aspect, but at the same time there is still this is still something that that people have to face. What responsibility does a modern Heathen have in confronting that and and how can they celebrate how they are and how they believe and and still find that balance, still maybe fight against the white nationalism or I'm not sure. How how does a modern Heathen handle that? >> So at least for me, the thing that always comes to mind is the the line from Havamal Havamal 127 is if you see evil, call it evil and work against it. And I'm paraphrasing terribly, but it's basically you see something that's evil, you call it what it is and you you do what you can to get rid of it. And that is if I if if I know a practitioner is a Nazi or we call them a folkish practitioner whether you know, they're very much concerned about everyone in Heathenry needs to be white. We're very upfront about that and say, "Hey, so I've heard some things about this practitioner. If if we have the information, we'll supply it. Say here are the screenshots of the post on whatever social media platform, this person's Nazi and we are very upfront about it supplying that information. On the positive side of things, the one thing especially with Elkridge Kindred, every single one of our events, there's a progress pride flag somewhere on site. Um usually multiple ones. Um we put our altar out. There are small uh wooden jerk cars that have shields on them and all the shields are painted in the pride colors all the way around. Um so most inclusive groups you see will be very up front about the fact that they're inclusive. They're loud about it. Um we definitely are. For Elkreach Kindred, I think at 80% of the Kindred is queer in some way. Um and we're very vocal about that fact. The where you start to get into trouble is a lot of the folkish groups are very they're very slick about it. They won't say anything on the front page of their website that is questionable. It all sounds okay. Um but then if you look at the site a little closer, you'll notice that all the pictures have white people in them. Or all the pictures have a very traditional view of a couple. It's always a man and a woman and usually multiple children. Catchphrases like celebrating our our European inheri- our European ancestry or our European inheritance. And that the when I see that one immediately, I'm like looking for other cuz if I see if I don't see anything to counter a folkish argument, I'm going to assume that group is folkish. It's great to be proud of where you come from, but for a for a front-facing group, you just need if you're trying to welcome people in, you can't be that exclusionary. Yeah, so yeah, a lot of it's just being very careful asking questions. One of the members of my Kindred, the first time I met them, they walked right up to me and they were like, "Hey, that's a great Thor's hammer. Are you a Nazi?" And I just started laughing. >> [laughter] >> Cuz sometimes you got to >> Hey, you know, direct questions can get a direct answer. It's easy to get it right out in the open, I guess. And and how do you go about kind of dismantling those negative thoughts or negative connotations that kind of attach themselves to Heathenry or or Norse paganism? >> Yeah, so really it comes down to we are our deeds. That's a a phrase that gets thrown around in Heathenry a lot. Um I can shout to the rooftops that I'm I'm not racist racist, that I'm welcoming, that I'm inclusive, but unless people see me acting that or see see me doing that on regular basins, yeah, so >> Yeah. >> I mean, I've got an entire workshop called queer identities in Heathenry. So that's actually one of the ones that people request most often um just because it's a little different, but yeah, so when I show up to teach, there's a pride flag somewhere. I have my pronouns very obviously like you know, right here now it's on the screen on Zoom. Yeah, I'm not shy about the fact that I'm non-binary. And just constantly talking about it, constantly just being welcoming. Yeah, there's nothing you can do and there's no one thing you can do other than just live it all the time and present the best example you can. Yeah, it would be about it. And maybe from a strictly like being able to point to it in a book so or like first time I read the Poetic Edda, I was like, "Where do these stereotypes come from? This stuff these stories are so queer." Like you have Loki transforming into a woman. You have Odin being accused of cross-dressing, which he doesn't seem to care about. And >> Thor, too, I think. >> Yes, yeah, Thor wears a wedding dress to get his hammer back and >> Exactly. >> piece of it sometimes as a little bit of a joke, but it's done and it's funny because you they always talk oh, magic was only done by women. But then you read all the sagas and like every other practitioner is a man. And like so something's not making sense here. Um and then if you look at the whole record everything all all the gloves are off and you have the remains of a woman surrounded by super expensive and elaborate war gear. >> Is it the Oseberg mound? >> The one I'm thinking of is in Birka. So yeah, Birka female warrior buried with a ton of weapons. They the archaeologist in the 1800s 1800s assumed it was a man because of the weapons. >> Exactly. >> other burials that are Yep, other burials where a man is buried completely surrounded by weaving implements and women women's implements. >> Yeah. >> Um, we have bodies that were buried that have both, you know, a bunch of weaving stuff and a bunch of weapons and every Who knows? I mean, it So, it looks like their view of gender was very different than ours. >> The one I love Okay, I'm going to I'm going to pull it out real quick cuz I love this story. I believe it was the Oseberg Mound at very elaborate chariots, uh, war gear, weapons, uh, what they assumed was a man and a woman, a man in wearing war gear next to a woman that they assumed was a save and in her pouch I know this mostly cuz there was cannabis in her pouch, but But, then they discovered through DNA testing that the warrior that they assumed was a great warlord was actually a woman. And I love this. I just love this. And so, it turns out it it happens more often than you would think in history and I just think that's that's fantastic. >> Yeah, it's it's amazing. The burial record alone, there's so much just things that you you wouldn't assume in a Norse burial that we find all the time that their society was obviously way different. >> thought they smoked weed? >> Yeah. >> [laughter] >> 100% Times were tough then, too. Everybody's got to have some fun. >> That's right. Everyone's got to have some fun. So, to bring it back to fun stuff, maybe not necessarily cannabis in particular, but >> [laughter] >> elves, dwarves, and hidden folk, legendary beings. You just recently did a workshop on some of the folk spirits, the folk creatures of Norse mythology. Can you tell us a little bit about these beings and how people who are not in Scandinavia can work with those types of beings? >> Yeah, sure. So, yeah, I just did that class or that workshop at Pagan Spirit Gathering. It was the first time I've presented it and and we had a lot of fun with it. So, for um, Iceland in particular cuz that's the area I'm most familiar with. Um we have the hidden folk who are elves-ish. They are described as looking a lot like humans. They wear maybe older style clothing, um but it's kind of and this this will resonate with a lot of other mythologies cuz there seems to be some of this in maybe like Irish lore and things like that that to where there is a world beside ours, almost like a parallel world running side by side with ours, and they live in that world and they're raising cattle, and they have professions and jobs and houses, and sometimes these two worlds can cross over and interact. Um so people would build a holda folk houses on their property, so giving the the elves and the land spirits of that place a place to live. Uh we actually have a seat in front of our house that we made, so made it one day and stuck it in the ground. So yeah, it's it's very like reminds you a little bit of the Irish conception of an elf a little bit. So a side-by-side society where you can interact and have encounters with these people and beings, and that doesn't seem to be held just to the Scandinavian countries. We see that in other cultures. Um I always joke around that if you kind of find the same thing in multiple pagan paths and even Christianity sometimes, that is probably like a universal truth. Um so I [clears throat] feel like there are those you can have those spirit encounters anywhere. There's spirits, you know, right where you are right now that just need to be recognized and paid attention to. And the spirits of place that you start interacting with can have beneficial effects on your luck. Um and I say luck, but from a Heathen perspective, luck is I always describe luck as your ability to survive any given situation. So like the resources you have available, the So there's stories in the Icelandic sources of people making friends with land spirits and elves, and their luck increases and they become wealthy landowners. And so you build relationships with these beings just like I was talking about before. It's it's just another relationship piece. One of the other creatures we were talking about a lot were the dwarves cuz they pop up in stories all the time. When the first Norwegian settlers settled in Iceland, there are these beautiful columns of basalt on the country, mostly along the beaches and that the settlers were like, well, obviously those were built by dwarves. They're made out of stone and they're beautiful and they're perfectly straight. But they were made they were they were natural geographic formations. So maybe they were built by dwarves if you consider land spirits and the world being kind of one in the same. >> Yeah. >> So, you know, these again, these hidden not always seen beings that are master craftsmen and builders and sources of wealth. There are usually relationships with dwarves will lead to wealth usually at least in the stories. So you've got those. There are the stereotypical troll that turns into stone when the sunlight hits him comes from Iceland and Norway. So like out of The Hobbit, that's that's directly from Icelandic sources. And it makes sense cuz we we've been in Iceland twice and you're you're going through the countryside and you see these piles of rock and these stone formations that look like they could just stand up and start walking around. Kind of like the Rock Biter in NeverEnding Story. They look just like that guy. >> Oh wow. >> that guy. He like to go around eating different kinds of rock. >> Yep. >> So they look like they could either be like hewn stone or actual creatures that could get up and just walk that had been turned to stone. >> Yeah, they're they're just natural formations. There's a set of them off the coast. I think it's the southern coast in Vic or Vik. And they look like three beings standing there and they're just natural formations, but there's all this folklore around them about how those were trolls that were out trying to save people in a shipwreck and got caught when the sun rose and got froze in place or then there's stories about like every little city out there has their own local legends about this rock formation that's over there that they think is a being and in my opinion it would be. Yeah, so the And then we've got sea monsters in Norwegian lore. We have the the Kraken, if you've ever seen Pirates of the Caribbean, the Kraken comes from Norwegian folklore. The selkies and magical horses. >> What you're saying is a lot of the really scary things that we're afraid of in folklore >> [laughter] >> come from Norse folklore. Is that what you're telling me? >> It could be seen that way and I think it's unfortunate that we always see them as scary because were they dangerous? Sure, but not necessarily bad. >> Right, like a storm is dangerous, but not bad. >> Exactly. So yeah, it's it's all based on what it's all based on what your relationship with that is and we're raised to be scared of those things, so our relationship automatically starts off at a negative a little bit because we've got this reaction. >> Wait a minute. Wait, wait, wait. Don't you guys have the Yule Cat? >> Oh yeah, Yule Cat's great and >> They eat people, right? >> That that is a piece of Icelandic folklore that's a little bit hard to wrap your head around because the Yule Cat eats kids that don't get new clothes for Christmas. So I'm like, "Wow, what a way to really beat up on people that are poor." >> Yeah, that's definitely not a nice folklore at all. >> There's cat Yule black Yule cats all over Iceland. It's it's so much fun. >> Now, do you have a favorite story? Do you have a favorite tale? >> Um I think my favorite one was the one I mentioned earlier with from and it's directly out of the Icelandic source material. The King of Norway sends a sorcerer out to try to invade Iceland and the sorcerer turns into a whale and he tries the different ports in Iceland, one in every direction, north, south, east, and west. At one port he is chased off by a giant stone giant throwing boulders at him. Um he swims around to another port and there's a dragon and all these winged beasts with sharp beaks and talons that come after him and attack him. He swim swims around again and then a giant bull surrounded by land spirits that are just is guarding the coast. Um and then I guess the last one he comes to is a um is an is a a yoten or a giant standing there holding an iron pole and he chases him off with the pole. So, the sorcerer goes back to Norway and he's like, "We're not invading. Screw it." >> [laughter] >> Their their spirits are way too strong. And for me that's a it's it's a beautiful story of how the Icelanders have built up this co-creative relationship with the land and the land itself was protecting them from a foreign power. And it's got shapeshifting and you know, all kinds of fun stuff in it. So, that's one of my favorites, but they the majority of Norse lore or in Iceland it worries a lot of sagas. My favorite saga and then at one point he's handed a drinking horn with poison in it. So, before he would drink he would sip the runes onto the drinking horn and since this horn had poison in it explodes in his hand before he gets to drink it. So, it keeps him from getting poisoned and it's full of rune magic and things like that. So, just a lot of fun. High adventure. >> Now, if only I had a rune that would prevent me from drinking too much mead on a festival night then that would be a good rune, too. [laughter] >> Seriously. >> Yeah, I don't think that one exists. >> [laughter] >> Ash, I have one final question um on my end for you. Now, >> Sure. >> obviously we've mentioned several times that you are a very huge key component of Kindred Crow and you also made mention that there is that that there wasn't evidence of drums. So, my question goes kind of to the music aspect. How does music function as a aspect of your ritual work or an aspect of your practice in Heathenry? >> Yeah, so for us chanting and we use drums because drums are such a huge part of the pagan community in general that you know, I'm a I play drums. Yeah, who loves who loves drums? Yeah, who loves drum circles are amazing. But, music in general most of our rituals have a musical piece to them or at least some sort of way to get kind of everyone Music is such a great way to take a group of people and focus them together for a single task and to raise a whole bunch of energy that you can use for whatever you want to use it for. And I think more so than even the raising energy, it's the it's the connection that the song gives the people that are participating and that building of energy and that that singular purpose that music puts to them. When everyone's at a rock concert and there's a thousand people singing the lyrics to a song, there is so much power and so much relationship and just that is all the good things about humanity for me. It's funny because for me there I always say there's no time that I'm heathen and no time that I'm not and there for there's also no time where music is not a part of magic and magic is so they are the same thing for me. >> Music is its own magic. >> Yeah, 100%. When you come to a Kindred Crow show, you will see us we start our show but with a small ritual. We've got the drums going. Irene will go up front and she's inscribing symbol symbols around the stage while we're all drumming and at the end we all howl and the crowd's going nuts and that's the start of our ritual of our performance is a ritual. I wouldn't say we go as deep as Heilung does but we definitely start it there and we we end with drum and chant usually. So yeah, it's just such an amplifier and such a like it quickest way to build a relationship with a group of people sing together and you're there. >> [laughter] >> That is very true and even as someone who I love music, I appreciate the heck out of music. Not so great at singing but even me, someone like me who I can sing in the key of dirge but if I can get into a chant and people don't mind that I'm terrible but enthusiastic, that is a wonderful way, just like you said, to build that community, to build connections with other people and to get everyone working towards the same purpose. I I can't think of much other than drumming and singing that can do that. >> Yeah, 100%. It's funny, I grew up when I was growing up my family my stepfather ran a concert venue. I grew up in West Virginia and we had about a 10 acre field in the back with a stage on it. And we would have like mid-tier rock bands come through. So bands like Sevendust and Mudvayne, that style. And super heavy metal shows, but when those people came together and we were doing a show, it was like one big family, like one 5,000 person family for that day and people were giving each other food and helping helping each other up when they got knocked down and it was just and it it took like everyone is there together. And I think music does does that for we're so as humans we're so tuned into it that it just immediately does that. So, yeah, music's awesome. >> Heathenry and music, I think community is the big thread that binds those together and that's one of the things I absolutely love about Heathenry and Norse Paganism is the extreme sense of community that it has. Like you said, it comes from a place where people had to rely on each other to survive. And so being that welcoming, so welcoming that there are laws to say that you need to let people in if the weather's shitty out. >> [laughter] >> You know, that that kind of belonging, that kind of community is something I think that we could all use, you know, in in whether you're a witch, whether you're pagan, whether you're heathen, that sense of community is magical and and I love seeing that in in Norse Paganism. So, thank you so much for coming on and talking to us about all of that, Ash. >> Yeah, no problem. I I love this stuff and I think the one more if one more misconception about Heathenry that you made me think of is that we're kind of ins- or an off to ourselves and that gets to be true in some respects, but the way things are today in, you know, 2026, we all need each other. So, I will It doesn't matter what your practice is. I will be standing right there next to you to make sure you have the right to practice the way you want to practice. And then, my only hope is that when it the time comes, you'll do the same thing for me. Um I don't think we're at a We're not at a place where we can afford to be separate. We've all got to Yeah, stuff's getting real. We need to make sure we're Yeah, 100%. >> We have to be that community. We have to make that community. And all of us stand together and work together to make the community that we want to see. >> Yep. >> Yeah, different podcast. But >> [laughter] >> But yes, community and standing together is really important, especially now. >> Yeah, for sure. >> Thank you again for being on the podcast, Ash. We really appreciate your time. Can you let people know where you're going to be next or anything that you're you're doing coming up or where they can find you online? >> Yeah, um the the best place to find me online is um I've got a very simple website up, ashglass.com. Um super easy to find there. Elkridge Kindred has its own website. So, any place that I will be or the Kindred will be will be listed on those two websites. Um also, Frederick Cups, um very active in that. I joke around that it's uh for me, it's spirituality by moving chairs cuz we're always setting up for something and moving things around. Um so, I'm usually at Frederick Cups events. Um and yeah, the festival season's kind of slowing down for us a bit. I'll be at Earth Spirits um Twilight Coven in October. Um and then, we've got Yeah, Kindred Crow also, kindredcrow.com has got all of our show dates on it. Um so, yeah, we're we're up and down the East Coast, and we're starting to venture into the Midwest. So, things are things are going well. >> Also, real quick, you and Irene have a book coming out, if I'm correct. >> Oh, yeah. We do. Um not anytime soon. It's probably going to It's probably a good year off. We're in a round of edits for it now. Um it is going to be basically foundational Heathenry. Uh you know, a starter pack for Heathens. Oh, I get asked all the time for a good recommendation for a starter book and we really didn't have one so maybe we should just make one and we did. >> [laughter] >> I love that. So maybe next year when that comes out we'll have to have you guys back on to talk about the book. That would be fantastic. [music] >> I'd love that. Yep. >> All right. Well again, thank you so much Ash. We appreciate you being on podcast. >> Thank you so much Ash. >> Yeah, thank you all. Thank you very much. >> [music] >> And a thank you so much to Ash Glass for joining us here on Back on the Broomstick. We really appreciate you taking the time to hang out with us. >> And [music] I am actually super excited for the book coming out, The Beginner's Guide to Heathenry [music] or whatever you're going to name it, but I'm waiting for it. So we so appreciate the time and folks, you know what to do. Stay wise, stay wicked. >> And keep it witchy.