Welcome to Back on the Broomstick, a modern witch's spoken word grimmooire [music] where two witchy friends from way back are reconnecting to their pagan roots after a long period of mundanity. >> We're rewalking the path of the wise and [music] trying out all the latest spells, rituals, and magical theory in today's witchcraft and pagan practices. [music] >> So, grab your wand and your incense, >> your cauldron and your crystals, >> and join us as we get back on the broomstick. Hi and welcome to Back on the Broomstick. I'm Laya and on this episode we're asking the question, what if you had to do all your spellwork with items that are already in your house? Wastist not want magic is using what you already have from kitchen herbs and garden weeds to old keys, candle stubs, rocks, scraps, jars, and whatever mysterious treasures are lurking in your junk drawer. Frugal spellwork honors the energy and history of everyday objects. helps to build relationships with the natural world around you and is an excellent reminder that witches have always been very very good at making magic out of whatever is available. And I'm Shell and honestly this is a motto I kind of live my life by and I'm not just talking in a magical world. I I must say this to my sweet love a couple times a week. Waste not wnot. So, I'm really excited to talk about this in a magical context today because I do feel that in not just your magical life, but in your mundane life, some of the things we're going to delve into and talk about are good practices because you know what? Waste not want. This is a great topic for us because I can't tell you how many times a listener has written to us or stopped up and told us how much they love how accessible our spellwork is. That we're not asking them to go out and find just the right shade of puse for their candle for their spellwork. >> They don't have to buy 35 crystals in order to do our spells. A lot of times we talk about using things that you already have, things you might have already used, secondhand things, natural things, but none of it is inaccessible or super expensive. >> Except tarot. Buy all the tarot. Just buy all of it. [laughter] >> Yeah. Okay. That's true. We do say that. That's very true. But for the most part, except for tarot and the occasional, you know, very pretty item. We're not saying don't go get pretty items. We're saying you don't need them. A lot of times you'll see on social media, especially Tik Tok gets a really bad rap for this, you'll see the very pretty flashy spells and they've got the gorgeous crystals and the $300 am and oh, everything. And of course, I want all of it. >> All the things that I can't afford. >> Exactly. There's a quote that that references this theme and I love it. And I'll be honest with you, I do not know the source, but I am not the source. And that quote is, "If you don't waste now, you will not lack in the future. Save resources." And you think back to like our grandparents that that lived through the depression and our great-grandparents and kind of apply that to the world we're living in right now currently. And waste not want. We if we like that saying says, if we don't waste now, we will not lack down the road. And I think the other thing about this isn't just not wasting things, which is super important, don't get me wrong, but the other aspect of this is learning to stretch your magical intuition and learning to stretch your ability to trust. If you go online and you find a spell that you like, but you don't have a huge chunk of rose quartz and you don't have essential oil of rose, being a frugal witch means you'll have to find a substitution. you'll have to make a magical correspondence that works for you and that works with the spell that you're trying to do. >> And I think that goes along with, you know, stuff that we've talked about time and time again about how it's not about all the stuff, it's about the intention. And to to kind of use your crystal theory, if I do not have a palmsized honken rose quartz that some spell I read out of a book or online tells me I need, I could go and I could meditate in the creek and take a moment and find a stone that I feel I could infuse that same intention. And in my mind and in my magic, who gives a if it's a creek stone or a rose quartz? >> And I'm going to add to that a little bit and say that I agree with that mostly. I do believe that items and objects have their own energy and their own magic that add to a spell. And I do think that there are times that no matter what my intention is, if I'm using an herb or a crystal that is diametrically opposed to my intention, >> I'm not using cayenne pepper for love. I get that. Although I can find a use for that in love. But anyway, I totally agree with you. But in my mind, I would say if I can't get that rose quartz, what do I have around my house or in my driveway? Can I find a heartshaped stone that might be a foundation stone shaped like a heart? And so I can use that energy instead of the love and the heart energy, the romance and self-love and and soft love of a rose quartz. I can find a foundation stone that's shaped like a heart. So that says strength, that says foundations, that says love that comes from stability, love that comes from strength. So you can find something that will work, but it means you have to stretch your magical brain to make those correspondences in this type of magic. >> I also kick back to the reuse port of this conversation because there's kind of anal piece as well. How many times have we all done a spell and used 3/4 or 97% of a candle or have a pile at the bottom of this candle and you're like, "All right, I'm just going to scrape this off and put this in the garbage." Oh, no, no, no, no, friend. Don't do that. So even in reuse side of this and and same with, you know, you've got just a tiny bit of herbs left in that jar and not enough to really do much with. You know, these are all things that that we want you to take advantage of and and to utilize because again, there is an environmental aspect to this thought process. As far as candles go, I'm going to say that for me personally, I do reuse candles, but I have a big huge caveat on that. If it's a spell candle, say I've dressed a candle and I am going to be calling in strength. Say I need strength to get through a situation and I've created this whole spell candle and dressed it and blessed it and energized it for this strength spell and there's a small little butt left of that candle. I will not reuse that. That I will possibly put into a larger melting for something that would require strength, I guess. Or maybe, you know, we talked a little bit about taking all these little bits and pieces of candles and herbs and putting them together at the end of the year for a a celebration of my magical year fire kind of thing where you put them all in just to kind of express. But I wouldn't use the butt of a candle that I had put that much energy into for anything else necessarily. However, there are candles that I reuse. Like say if I'm calling in air for different spells, I will reuse that candle for air over and over and over again. Or I might use that air candle for a spell for communication or a spell for uh clearing the way. Or if I use a candle to call in a deity, I will use that candle for that particular deity again, not for a different deity. Or I'll use that candle for sovereign energy or for personal strength energy. So again, for me, it goes back to yes, I want to reuse it, but I want to honor the energy that I've already put into it, right? And reuse it for that purpose. So, I guess that's partly where labeling things comes in, like spell jars or moon water and that kind of thing cuz you're not always going to know what that butt end of a candle was for. >> Literally, I want you to introduce me to one person who has all their moon water labeled because I can't find a person. [laughter] >> You know, everyone keeps telling me they don't need to until they actually reach for that jar and realize, "Oh I don't know where I got this." It happens to all of us at one point or another. Before we go off this topic, what would you do if you had like say three candles sitting there and you're like, "Well, this is green, so I probably used it for money, but what would you do if you had candle butts left over? You needed to use one." And you weren't sure what spell it had been used for previously. >> I would do some sort of just quick cleansing of it. Whether that be a air cleansing, uh, you know, a water cleansing, you know, because it's a a candle, maybe I would use water, kind of do the fire, water opposite thing. And just kind of do a little cleansing, a little clearing. And you can say that the same thing with things like reusing spell bottles and such. you know, do a little smoke cleansing with sometime if you're going to reuse a spell jar, they always say to put a little incense stick in there, put a little cinnamon in there or whatever. I would I would say cleanse that, you know, kind of maybe release the energy that was infused in it. And I guess that's where I I I don't want to say disagree with your candle point, but kind of because do something to release the energy that was infused into that candle and, you know, thank it for what you had initially intended it for and then ask it, you know, may I reuse you for other purposes in the spirit of waste not whatnot. >> See, you just hit on something exactly that I was going to talk about. And as an animist, what I would do first if I had like candle stubs that I didn't know what the spell had been is I would sit with that candle. Say I need a red candle for a self-empowerment spell. And I find a stub and all I've got is a stub of red candle. No other candles in the house. Just this one stub of a previously used spell candle that I don't remember what I used it for. I would sit with that candle and I would meditate with it and I would I know it sounds cheesy, but feel the energy of it. But I would ask it, do you want to be part of a self-empowerment spell? And see where that energy feels. See how it feels. Does it feel right? Does it not feel right? And if it felt right, then I would do exactly what you said, Shell. I'd go ahead and I'd cleanse it. I'd thank it for its previous use. And I' I would thank it for agreeing to put those energies towards this new idea of self-empowerment. But if it didn't feel right, then I would not use that. I would either say, "Do you think you might be used in the future?" And if the answer is no, then I would try to dispose that. You and I both have a little dish like we were talking earlier about this. I have a bowl where I keep the odds and ends of spell scraps I guess for better want of better things to call them. Uh bits and pieces of herbs that were partially burned in a charcoal. The remains of that charcoal. The sticks from stick incense that I used in a spell. Little pieces of wax. All the leftovers I call it. It's It's my leftovers bowl is what I like to call it. >> Exactly. And what I like to do with that is periodically, usually on a Sabbath, I'll go out and have a fire and I will put those in the fire, thank them all for the energy that they gave me in their spells and ask that by burning it here that that energy continues or if it's time to dispose of it and just let it be that that happens here as well. So, there's a couple different ways that you can dispose of things in a very magical way. Now, I want to kind of turn the conversation to secondhand. >> Oo, one of my favorite things. >> You and I love other people's junk. Whether it be on websites, whether it be the thrift store, whether it be on Facebook Marketplace, we love stuff, whether it's been previously owned or not. People ask me all the time this about tarot. You know, would you take a used tarot deck or >> 100% Honey, send it. Mail it. I'm okay with it. But to kind of touch on something more spellcrafty, you happened to win a online auction one time. So, tell us about the online auction you won and what the contents were. >> Oh, okay. Yes. Okay. So, I love to go on local auctions that have an online optin kind of like eBay but for local places. And just recently, well, I guess it was a few months ago, I did talk about it on a previous episode, I won several lots that included some tarot decks, oracle decks, I believe there were some crystals in there, some jewelry, all obviously a witch's items, and some spell jars sealed in wax. And we had a little bit of a discussion about what should I do with these. And there's a lot of different options. I personally decided that I was going to leave those spell jars intact and I put them on an ancestor altar because I do believe that this person had passed and I felt like a nice way to honor them and honor the items that they had put forward to other people would be to leave those spell jars intact on an ancestor altar. But there are other things that I could have done with them as a frugal witch. And I really like the idea that that one of the options for you was to actually honor the previous owner. You don't know what the intention of that spell was. You don't know what way that was going, but it is now its intention is honor and respect. And I think that's that's also a nice way to reuse and repurpose. But I do think that if I was going to open someone else's spell jars that I don't know what they are. Would I ever? Yes. And would I then reuse the items in it? Maybe. >> Depends. Depends who they are. >> That's right. What I would do though is first construct a bomb box. I guess [laughter] >> the weird thing is I know exactly what you're talking about. >> Okay. Thank you. Yes. I would either seal the room that I was in, but I would probably go even further and I would take a box or a bag and I would either put mirrors or reflective surface inside of it. I would put items that negate things inside of it. I'd probably put some charcoals in there to absorb energy. Uh you might put in some hematite or protective crystals. Clear quartz is always a good go-to. Sage to cleanse and to clear things. So, whatever herbs, items that you like for cleansing and clearing, put them in this box or in this bag. Then take the spell jar in your little hands and put your hands inside this box or bag. It's really nice if you can cut a hole in the side and just stick your hands in so it's entirely inside the box. Then open the spell jar in your sacred space, knowing that your intent is to safely negate and to ground out any energies that are in that spell jar. Will this always work? No. Are you going to encounter spell jars you can't handle? Maybe. But most of the time, it's just going to already have fizzled. A lot of times, these spell jars are just going to have done their purpose and be done and over with. You don't even know what it is to give it energy to recharge that spell. So, most of the time when you open it, it's just going to open and be fine. But, at least you've grounded out any energy and in a respectful and honorable way. And then you can either dispose of the items inside or ask them if they'd like to be repurposed and then cleanse and repurpose them. >> You know, something like uh crystals, for example. Um we were recently out somewhere and I know your husband happened to find a wonderful flipping crystal on the ground. And in that event, something like that, a a crystal or, you know, maybe you found, I don't know, a tool on the ground, whatever. Or maybe you want it in an auction, whatever. The sun and the moon, uh, would be my go-to with cleansing, those types of things. like the crystal that your husband found. I if that were me, I would put it out maybe all day, 24 hours, all day in the sun, all day in the the moonlight. >> He put it up against a plant that he really enjoyed. And so he left it there against the roots and the stem of this plant that he loved for several days. >> So, you know, it's it's kind of whatever floats your boat and tickles your fancy, but that would absolutely be something I would reuse. you know that lot you won online if that was chalk full of crystals would I cleanse them and use them absolutely put them out and you know obviously check your crystals there are certain things you don't want out in the sunlight or if it's going to rain you know you don't want your salon out in the rain or you're going to come out to a pile of nothing [laughter] but moonlight and are a good cleanser as well at least in my opinion when it comes to those crystals and stones that you're using or cleansing from previous usage whether it be spell or what have you. >> Speaking of crystals, crystals and metals are some of those things that hold energy really well, but they also are very longived. They last a very long time. If you work with a crystal, if you work with crystal energy, you know, they're not simple. They could certainly hold the energy of your spell for a long time, but they also when it's time to move on, crystals are great at that, too. So easily programmable, easy to hold on to memory. So I think they're they're a great tool because of that. They're a wonderful thing to work with. Metals and crystals are wonderful to work with because of the way they can hold on to those energies, but also because of the way that I guess you can change their mind. I'm not sure how to put that. See, I've always looked at crystals as being something that like almost like a windshield wiper. In in my mind, they're like the easiest thing to kind of clear the energy. You turn the windshield wiper on, you clean it, and then boom, you're it's almost like a reset. >> I totally agree. But at the same time, they're also one of those things that can hold on to the energy very very strongly. Like super strongly. So it's it's just I guess it's one of those dichomous things. Both are true. >> Both are true. >> And so that gets back to a little bit. You have to use your magical discernment. Herbs, they're flighty. they're going to let go of things pretty easily, whereas crystals are going to hold on to them longer if you let them. Items, I guess, are going to be the same way. So, like a secondhand set of tarot cards, I do feel that, you know, a simple cleansing and getting to know them is all you really need to do for a magical tool like that. Or if you find an item that isn't even a magical tool, say, "Okay, I found a bronze oak leaf branch, I guess you could call it. I'm not sure what it is. It's very pretty, but it's an oak leaf on a long stem. And it's one of my favorite alter items, especially this time of year for harvest and to represent fall. It's beautiful. It was secondhand, but it was very easy to take that and to cleanse it. Again, like you said, sunlight is wonderful for that. Just let it know that you're cleansing it. Use a little smoke and then let it know your purpose is to bring in the energies of harvest, the energies of fall, the energies of long summer days to my altar. So, it can be very simple to cleanse and repurpose secondhand items. You know, when I think of specifically metal and crystal items, like you said, there is that almost like that deep standing memory, and that's kind of how I look at it. you can cleanse it and repurpose it, but I think those things do kind of almost carry the history with them. Similar with a deck, a tarot deck, I I've tarot deck that was used and I cleansed it and I cleansed it and I cleansed it and I cleansed it, but it almost seemed like the vibe it gave me was I've cleansed it, but I still remember my history. One of the things that I love about secondhand items is that a lot of times they do remember their history. Take for example a secondhand book. I don't mind when there's writing or underlining or highlighting in it. I kind of love that reminder of the person who had it before and and their thought process. And the same thing too with tools. Sometimes the little imperfections or the little obvious it obvious signs of wear can be part of their charm. And so I guess energetically as well, the memory of what it had done in the past can be part of what it is now. And that's a good reminder that correspondences are really about energetic connection and not just a shopping list of spell ingredients that you that you find online. So say you're doing a protection spell. The idea is to not ask, "What's the list of herbs that are good for protection?" Ask, "What do I have around my house that protects itself or is something that reminds me of protection?" If you wanted to look for protection herbs, you could say, "What herbs have thorns?" or or what herbs are spiky or look spiky. Back in the '9s, we used to call that kitchen witchcraft, cuz you just threw a bunch of together and you made it work. [music] >> Grab onto your broomstick, witches. Back after these messages. Hey, Hkate. What's up? >> Min is almost here, which means I'm heading back to the underworld. I love Hades, but that man's decorating skills are bleak. Your altars always look fabulous. Help me. >> What I'd really like to do, Pphanie, is I'd like to grab my torch and lead you down the path to the witch's moon. I've pretty much decorated every crossroads with stuff from there. >> Perfect. I also need something for my mother. Every fall, deer gets upset, and suddenly nothing grows. and everybody's cold. So, if we can find her something sparkly enough to prevent seasonal devastation, that would be great. >> Okay, seriously, the witch's moon. It is going to be where you need to go to a get something to please deer and b stock up for your trip down south. >> I'm looking at this website and sweet holy me, there is some absolutely stunning items on here. I'm always at this crossroads of do I buy more decks or do I buy more stuff? Sometimes I get all of it. Ooh, I'm signing up for the witch's bounty. If Hades isn't going to buy me gorgeous magical jewelry, I'll do it myself. Plus, getting a witchy subscription box in the mail every month might make the dreary season in the underworld go by a little faster. >> Yes, they have all the goodies. Yes, they have all of the subscription boxes. But what we got is a collaboration of the >> giveaway between Back on the Broomstick and The Witches Moon. Our favorite online shop wants to give you not one, not two, but three magical boxes. One lucky winner will win the October the Witches Moon subscription box. One will win the October Witches Root subscription box. And one will win the October the Witches Bounty subscription box. If you would like to enter, follow us on either Facebook or Instagram or both. >> Follow the Witches Moon on the socials. >> On our social, you are going to need to comment what box you would like to be entered for. >> That winner will be announced September 18th. >> Do all of the things because we got some good to give away. And the Witches Moon, they are knocking it out of the park with this collab. Best of luck to you all and thank you so much to The Witches Moon. Stop over to their website, the witchesmoon.com. Check out the Moon Market online store. Sign up for your own witchy subscription box and try your hand at our giveaway. And don't forget your tarot cards. >> Time to shop. [music] >> You know, that's exactly right. And now Kitchen Witchcraft is is cooking magic. But yeah, Kitchen Witchcraft used to be exactly this. waste not want not magic. Finding things that have the correspondences of what you can use that you already have around your house. Look at the behavior of something. Look at the shape of it. Look at the smell or the folklore behind it and find something that you already have that will work for your spell. We've talked a lot about being very frugal. What are some times in magic that you actually like to buy things or get something that's new? Herbs definitely top of the list because you know sometimes you can reuse some things, sometimes you can have things last a long time, but herbs have a short life in the scheme of magical tools. I very much like buying new, especially if it's a handmade item. If I'm at a witchy fair or a craft fair or if I'm at a local shop, I really like handmade and local items. And those are things that I will definitely buy new every time. It's that uniqueness that that draws me. And it, you know, that just makes me think of of being at festival last month and all of those artisans that just have such unique, beautiful things that, you know, you can go to the big box stores and get something that they have 8,000 in stock of and 30,000 people own it already, but it's those handmade local artisan things that really kind of pop because they are more unique. >> I've kind of been on a kick for the last year of not buying anything new or [snorts] is buying as little as I possibly can new. That's for all sorts of different reasons. One thing I like to buy new is deity representation. And by that I mean generally I'm someone who will get like a statue or a figure, that type of deity representation. Not that I've come across too many used options for two foot hikate statues, but if I did, I'd probably look at the price and think about it. Not going to lie. But I like to get my my little statues or or deity figurines new. I feel like I'm the one who should be infusing the vibe into that from the get-go. You know what I mean? >> Mhm. Yeah, I hear you. All right. So, we've talked about items that you can repurpose and use secondhand tarot or secondhand items. We've talked about things that we like to buy new. Now, if you did buy a secondhand tarot item, what would you do with it if you had something that you wanted to use as an altar item or a secondhand item that you wanted to use for a ritual purpose? Is there any particular type of ritual, spellwork, cleansing that you like to do >> with tarot? Um, it's going to be, you know, I generally am one that any active deck I have, uh, or anything that I obtain and have any intention of using, um, I'm immediately going to put it in a bag and keep it that way with a thing of salonite, a thing of black tormolene to kind of keep that that energy balance, keep that energy clear. I I like to look at it as keep it nonvelcro, nothing's sticking to it, you know? But as far as other things I said, if it was crystals uh or tools, I like the sun, the sun and the moon balance of of that cleansing whether dependent again obviously depending on the material of the stone or or the tool, but a smoke cleanse works just as well. You know, if I'm going to reuse a jar from a spell jar, I'll take a little incense stick and, you know, do a little smoke cleanse with the incense stick in the jar. So, I guess it's going to depend on exactly what it is on what method I'm going to use to cleanse it. >> Tarot cards in particular. Let's just talk about tarot in particular, cuz that's not something that I would feel comfortable leaving outside, even if the weather was nice. So, for you, it's a tarot bag and the and the crystals. Is there anything else that you like to do to get to know a tarot deck that's been secondhand? >> Kind of. You know, just like with any other working tool, you're going to want to have a conversation with it. you know, are we going to be able to work together? How's this going to go? You know, do we have common personalities? You know, you've had a deck that extremely disliked you. >> To be honest, it extremely disliked everyone. It wasn't just [laughter] you. >> But have that conversation. We've talked about the whole animistic aspect. Talk to the deck. See, maybe the deck don't want to work with you. You know, maybe that deck is from someone who's passed on and the deck wants to pass on too. Or maybe that deck is from someone who just didn't understand tarot and it's just bursting to talk to somebody, you know. So, I know as as weird as it sounds, have the conversations with these items. >> Especially for tarot, I also like to have that conversation over a long period of time. I I will also do an initial cleansing and usually that involves a lot of shuffling. For me, shuffling is a a very easy way to cleanse tarot cards. It's what I have done for a very long time. I also like to put them all in order right side up. I do read reversals, but in between clients when I would read, I always put the cards all back together right side up and go through and shuffle them a few times. And for me, that is a very easy way to clear the energy. But then like you, I'll keep it with some crystals and then I like to use it as my daily pull. Like if I'm doing a daily one or two or three card pull, I'll use the new deck for a while regularly just until we kind of get to know each other just kind of as a a daily touchstone, a little bit of checking in and seeing if the energy is still good, seeing if the readings come through good. But I like to spend a little time with it. I guess really what this episode has been about is the idea that witchcraft itself doesn't have to be about anything. Like Shell says a lot, your intention is a huge part of your magical spellwork, your will, your energy. And the items that are in the spellwork very much do help and very much help to project that energy. But I think in a lot of modern witchcraft, the items have become a crutch. Putting the items together seems to be what a lot of social media witches think is the way to do a spell. You gather the ingredients, you put them together, and boom, your spell has happened. And that's really just collecting cool things. That's not really witchcraft. Witchcraft is you. Witchcraft is your energy, your magic, your intention, and the items that you're choosing really just lend their energy and help you direct yours. So, you're the magical tool, not all these little things that you can collect. By using what you have, by going back to our roots. I mean, do you think the witches back in the day were running down to their local Trader Joe's to pick up a pomegranate for their spell? Actually, I was just trying to picture my ancestors coming to America in the early 1600s being like, "Who's got pyite? Who's got pyite? [laughter] So >> exactly >> granny magic, folk magic, backills magic, even a lot of this high magic. They used what they had. Witches from the beginning of time, pagans, heathens, we've used what we have. You know, you didn't have to go and grab a crystal from the neighboring country in order to perform your spell. Most of the time, they used what they had in their backyard. They used what they had on hand to work their will. So instead of thinking when you're getting ready to do one of these spells that you found, I don't have what I need, you should be asking what around me that I already have carries the energy that I need that I can use for this. But I also would like, you know, as we wrap up this conversation and I'm looking to also add to this the caveat that we also, you know, we like to be thrifty. We like to, you know, take advantage of places like Goodwill and, you know, my kids used to think that clearance was an actual person. You know, we try to be thrifty and good, but do not get me wrong, I love a good brand new magical tool. I love a good new spell piece, but it is it necessary? No. Is it nice? Yes. >> Oh, absolutely. Don't get me wrong. Just recently, I went and bought something from a lovely magical shop that shall remain nameless, but yeah, I like sparkly new things, too. I do get them. And and I absolutely love to have them, but do you have to? No, absolutely not. And I have this gorgeous am. Can I only use it once or can I only use it in one type of ritual or spell? No. I can use it for lots of things. I mean, obviously, if your tradition calls for it, you might have a tool that has one specific use. Or sometimes we have things that we might dedicate to one specific use, but for the most part, I don't think it matters. If you have a conversation with your tools, if you know what your intention is, you can find things that work for your magic right in your own kitchen. >> It's all about intention, man. >> Well, it's mostly about intention. [laughter] But it's definitely about using your imagination, using your magical brain, and absolutely using what you have on hand. So, check out your local thrift shops, check out any of these bid sites online, gather up all your used components that you have that you may be able to reuse. And you as well at home, try some waste, not want magic. There you go. Next time you're trying to do a spell and you don't have vetr, that's really good for grounding, financial abundance, and tranquility, you can get some, say you've got some chamomile. That's good for tranquility. Or maybe you need the financial abundance part of vetr. You could get yourself a little bit of clover from your backyard because honestly, there is a crap ton of clover in my backyard and it looks like abundance to me. I was just thinking basil because I'm like who does not have basil in the kitchen? >> Exactly. Now we're talking like frugal witches. [laughter] That's exactly it. So yeah, if you don't have that fancy ingredient, check out what you've got. What is [music] your intention and what do you have that matches that intention already on hand? So all right, witches. [music] Thank you so much for listening to this episode of Back on the Broomstick. We hope you're out there doing all sorts of magic with things that you find in your own house and occasionally getting something shiny and [music] sparkly from your favorite small witchy business. >> So, we want you guys to stay thrifty, stay wicked, and keep it witchy.