Laylla: Welcome to Back on the Broomstick, a modern witches' spoken word grimoire, where two witchy friends from way back are reconnecting to their pagan roots after a long period of mundanity.

Chelle: We're rewalking the path of the wise and trying out all the latest spells, rituals, and magical theory in today's witchcraft and pagan practices.

Laylla: So grab your wand and your incense, your cauldron and your crystals, and join us as we get back on the broomstick.

Laylla: Hi, and welcome to Back on the Broomstick. I'm Laylla, and today we welcome the Good Witch of Hollywood, Patti Negri. She's a psychic medium, an author, a paranormal investigator, a TV star, and a witch of many hats. And today she's here to talk to us about her book, "Dollcraft: A Witch's Guide to Poppet Magic and Haunted Dolls."

Chelle: And I'm Chelle, and I've got to say everything that Patti does is everything that Laylla and I love, and I have been looking forward to this conversation since I first saw this book, like, in the fall. So, Patti, we welcome you to the show, and we are so glad you're here today.

Patti: Oh, thank you. I am thrilled to be here. Thank you for having me on. And that makes me so happy. So, thank you. This will be fun.

Laylla: So, we're very excited to have you here. So, thank you so much for being on.

Patti: Yay, awesome.

Laylla: And can you tell us a little bit about how you kind of got into, how did you become the Good Witch of Hollywood? Can you tell us a little bit about how this all started?

Patti: Kicking and screaming. Last time. I, I mean, I, you know, since my path started very young, my magical path and my ability to talk to spirits always was who I was. In the '80s, I discovered Wicca, a pagan circle, Long Beach.

Laylla: Oh, yes. We, that's, we all found Wicca in the '80s.

Patti: We all found Wicca. Yes. That's right. Oh, they love the trees, too.

Laylla: Yes.

Patti: That's so funny to me now. But, but I kept it very private. I was an actor. I was actually a dancer, too. I danced with Gregory Hines once, my claim to fame. Not, but, but I was a tapper, but mediocre. I was okay. But, when I got too old for Holly- Hollywood, which I did at 30, when you are the, the, the girl and the dancer and the pretty girl, you get too old. You can't, now you can be a wise old witch. That's fine. But, at 30, I went, I got too old for Hollywood, and I'm like, well, I'll just become a producer and hire myself. So, I started my production company, a very corporate, cuz corporate entertainment was the place to make money. I would be hired by Fortune 500, create shows both live and film, song and dance extravaganzas, teaching ethics to oilmen, pub- public relations to the HR department of so-and-so, via create funny sketch entertainment shows, interactive, immersive, whatever we call. And I'm like, these people cannot know, on one hand, I dance around bonfires in a cape, on the other hand, I talk to dead people. They really don't need to know that. They, I'm in a very weird corporate, very, you know, ah. So, I kept it very, very separate. But, I had my very, very busy private life. Somebody called me who had been to one of my seances. I've always having seances around the dining room table, have a pe- She had been to one of my seances, and she said, "Patti, I need you to do one of your seances on my reality show." And I'm like, "Oh, yeah, thank you, no. I, that's my private life. I keep that. Thank you, appreciate that, but no, I can't." "Please." "No." "Please." "No." And I'm sitting there, it's 2008, the corporate crash. Corporate, it became a dirty word, co- I have like looking at my dead calendar going, I, I can't, but, well, well, what's the name of the show? And literally, with a straight face, she goes, "Well, it's called Mobile Home Disaster, and it's on Country Music Television." And I'm like, who would watch that? I don't, none of my corporate clients are going to watch Mobile Home Disaster, Country Mu- none of my friends are, maybe I could do this one job. I need a job. Maybe I could do, I went, and it was the most fulfilling day I'd had since I could remember. I got to help this human little girl who everybody thought was crazy because she was drawing portals on the ceiling of her mobile home. I'm like, "No, no, there are portals on the ceiling of her mobile home." I got to help this spirit had a big old message, just wanted to make the message, and almost equally as good or best of all, slightly open the mind of the Southern Bible Belt cast and crew that this isn't dark, and this isn't evil, and this isn't negative or satanic or, that, and I'm like, oh my god, this is the best day I've ever, and I know camera, I've been on camera my whole, I, it's like, I have never had more, and I'm never going to do it again. Never going to do it again. When it, when it aired a couple of months later, um, I'm like, oh, that was good. The, the next morning, I'm sitting in my little production office. My very first phone, phone call was from my biggest corporate client. I did national shows for him. "Hi, Patti." "Hi." "I saw you on television last night."

Laylla: Uh-oh.

Patti: Yeah.

Chelle: Now you know who watches country television.

Patti: This big old pause. "Yeah. I didn't know you were into the paranormal." And I'm thinking, I'm never going to work again. I'm going to get, and she goes, "I love the paranormal." And I'm like, "What?" And she proceeded to tell me her first ghost story, paranormal, and I'm like, what am I doing? I'm out of the broom, I'm out of the broom closet, I'm out of the psychic medium closet, I'm out of the paranormal closet, and I haven't looked back.

Laylla: Nice.

Patti: And it is so much more, in the universe, the gods kept pushing me this way. It would just like, okay, we're going to make this go bad and this go good, and this go, no, you don't want to do that, you want to do this.

Laylla: Oh, when they have a path for you, they tend to do that. They close doors and open them until you're herded right down the, yeah.

Patti: Oh, so theatrically, so dramatically, so every which way. It's like, got it. Got it. You know.

Laylla: Wow. And then you end up on all sorts of shows. You're on YouTube channels, everybody's pulling you in to come on their paranormal investigation with them.

Patti: I know. I, I am everybody's, I am every like 15-year-old girl's dream. I'm thinking about how I get to travel with Sam and Colby or Elton and Matt Rife and all my YouTubers, which is next generation. And my Ghost Adventures, I love those boys. I mean, basically, two episodes a year for 11 years now.

Laylla: Wow.

Patti: On 20 episodes, which is pretty darn good for a very boy-centric, boy-oriented show. It's always an adventure. I'm, I'm the luckiest girl in the world. I go, this is so much more fun than teaching ethics to oilmen.

Chelle: I wanted to start with my little story on, on how you came into my view very recently. I recently, um, have left living in Salem, Massachusetts. I lived in Salem for six years, and I did a part-time gig at a wonderful shop in Salem, and every day I would walk by the shelf, and all of a sudden, this doll is looking at me.

Laylla: The doll from the cover of the book.

Chelle: The doll from the cover of the book. And I went to a couple of my friends, and I'm like, "There's something about this book. I think I need to get this book, and we need to look into it," and they're like, "Yeah, no, we ain't touching the doll thing." And so I kind of, I kind of let it out of my mind for a little. And a few more things have happened, which we'll get into, but to me, I have been dying for this since early fall, if not about this time last year.

Patti: Well, I am so glad that you got it and didn't wait, and I promise it won't attack you or, I would have sent you one immediately if, if your friends didn't want you to have one. Yeah, no, I, I have been a doll enthusiast, a doll collector, my entire life, since before I was born. Um, I was the girl my mom always wanted, came late. I think I had a huge doll collection before I was out of the womb, and always loved them, not always haunted, every kind of doll. Again, I know we're all, not on audio, but right now there is, you know, 10 dolls behind me, but if I turn my camera around, there is hundreds of eyes looking at me. Many of them are Barbies. I'm, I must say, I'm, I've been a Barbie collector since birth, hundreds of them, but I have never had a haunted Barbie. I think because to me, she is just such a goddess. She's a goddess. She doesn't need to take on a spirit or disembodied spirit or a fetish or anything like that. She's just the Barbie goddess. But, what this book did for me is it combined my two worlds, cuz they crossover. You guys crossover, our witchy world, our spiritual world, our magical world, and then there's that ghosty paranormal world. My one thing that crosses over, so I did the book that half of it is about magical poppets and how to make them for all those things we use our spellcrafting for, and the other half, the proper care and feeding of haunted dolls, because, you know, dolls have never been more popular. Yes, thank you, Hollywood, The Conjuring, this and that, but I've never seen more regular adults like us, men, women, with doll collections and haunted doll collections. That wouldn't have been in my parents' generation. No. They, they've been around forever, and there is, in my experience, proper ways to take care of them, care and feeding. You are bringing a spirit into your house, and that's why I'm so about high, I don't like good or bad, but high-vibration dolls, because a high-vibration haunted doll with a spirit of some sort is going to be just as spooky, wink at you, move around, footprints, entice the children and animals, as a low-vibration doll, but it won't drain your energy, make you sick, and cause arguments. So, it's like how to, to, to wrestle between them and get rid of the negative energy and boundaries and stuff with the dolls. So, that's where Dollcraft come. It was my first thing to just really combine, this is who I am, of this paranormal, crazy, ghosty girl and a spiritual attached to nature and the goddess, and now we've got it all.

Laylla: I think that's one of the things that interested me about you is, I will admit, I, I've seen a few of the, of the ghost shows and the paranormal shows, but I don't watch a ton of them. And the ones that I've seen that you have been on, I've loved your presence there, because you do bring such a very familiar witch vibe to these ghost hunts that sometimes get very, very scary, very out there, very, you bring such a good, what I would say, grounded vibe. I've seen you do ritual in a haunted space, and you call quarters, you, you create sacred space, and I can see the magic and the witchcraft that I'm very familiar with in that space. Can, can you tell us a little bit about being a witch and going into these, uh, haunted spaces and these investigations with people who maybe are not witches or don't have that type of background?

Patti: Yeah, it's fabulous. Again, because I, I'm an educator. I'm a teacher at heart, and it's like these people, they want to see, they want to believe, and it started out years ago, it was the tech nerds, the technology and the, the beeps and the bops and all this.

Laylla: Right, right. All the, the, the proof, right? The, the digital proof.

Patti: But then when they see what we can do as witches, about we can lift the veil and call in spirits and work with spirits, like, oh, bring them along, because thing, more things happen when we bring them along, and then how we can handle things when things go awry and something that bigger than they know how to deal with, we know how to deal with it. So, it's over this last several years, it's became the cool thing to have, whether a witch, and often it is a witch, not just a psychic or a medium, because they know we know how to deal with the other world in a respectful and good way. They're slowly learning the respect thing. So, again, what they get out of it is a much more active experience, and how to be safe, and how to, you know, not get knocked out, how to deal with things that they don't know how to deal with along the way.

Laylla: In a respectful manner.

Patti: In a respectful way. Cuz that's the big word, respect, cuz that's the only time things, and I've had crazy, weird, horrible things happen, but only time is when either I either dropped the ball and didn't set up all my wards and protectors, or, more than likely, almost always, somebody got disrespectful. Nobody wants to be disrespected, dead or living, whatever spirit realm they came from.

Laylla: Now, what do you say to people who either found a doll, had a doll, um, went to a Goodwill and bought a doll, whatever the case may be, what do you say to people who think that every doll is haunted?

Laylla: Grab onto your broomstick, witches. Back after these messages.

Laylla: Witches, guess what? We are coming to Salem. Chelle, tell them why we're coming.

Chelle: We have been invited by our friends at Pentagram to come down and read tarot.

Laylla: Ooh. So, not only are we going to be visiting our favorite haunts in Salem, we're going to be slinging cards at one of our favorite shops.

Chelle: So, if you happen to be in Salem October 5th, 6th, and 7th, stop on down to our absolute favorite shop, Pentagram shop. We will be there doing tarot. Come see us.

Laylla: Slots are going fast. So, if you want to see us, stop in, say hi, get a selfie, we would love that. And if you'd like your cards read by Chelle or by Laylla, just give them a call, get an appointment, and we look forward to seeing you in Salem, Massachusetts.

Chelle: And to get that appointment booked, you want to give them a shout-out at 978-224-2925. Give Pentagram a call, tell them you want to hook up with Laylla and Chelle.

Laylla: So, check us out in Salem if you want to have a witchy good time.

Chelle: And we will be there with our witchy hats.

Laylla: I have a few of those. I wasn't planning on wearing a hat, but I guess I, I will now.

Patti: See, that's crazy. One reason I did do the book, too, is I don't, people are, of course, taking advantage of this trend in the thing. So, I, I even say, be careful if you're on eBay or, you know, some online thing, and one particular seller is charging triple the price, and they've had 700 haunted dolls with these long and detailed stories. It's like, maybe they're just a really good fiction writer, you know, they, they went to Goodwill, they found a doll. And I'm like, yeah, you're, you're going to find better ones in Goodwill and antique stores. Trust your intuition, trust your gut. Which is, again, what we as witches and pagans want people to go inside, not because we told you to, not because the world told you to. Feel, you know, open that up. So, that's this trend in dolls. Like, I'm going to walk in this store, I am drawn to this doll, I don't know why. Let me figure out why. Awareness, consciousness, it's amazing.

Laylla: You mention awareness and consciousness, and I have to mention that one of the times when I went to visit Chelle in Salem, uh, we went through the, what was it, the Proctor House, Chelle?

Chelle: Yeah, the Witch House.

Laylla: And in, in the Proctor House, in the Witch House, is a, an exhibit, and they have a poppet that was found in the walls of one of the houses. More than likely, it was a, a poppet that was created and put in the walls as part of a folk magic, as protection, as protecting the house, or bringing fertility or, or family or something along those lines. And I, in your book, you talk about the difference between haunted dolls and poppets that were created with a purpose. Can you tell us a little bit about that?

Patti: Yeah, to me, a, a haunted, there's many, haunted doll is a disembodied spirit is going to go take residence in a doll. Of, they, they don't have to have residence, but if they want to have residence, what are you going to, you're going to go in some, you can go in a toaster, they can go in a bottle of water, but why not go in something with eyes and a nose and a face where there's a communication? That would be a haunted doll. There's also an, a spirited doll that just has the energy, maybe a little girl or little boy loved it forever, and you still feel that love. That's just like that residual energy that's beautiful, or terror, whatever it is. But a poppet, as you guys know, that is you're creating a, a fetish, a tulpa, you are creating the spirit. Here is my, my, my poppet for health, my poppet for love, my poppet for abundance and money, and I'm putting whether it's your herbs and your oils and your intent and everything into it. You are creating that spirit. You're not calling in a rich ghost. I guess you could, you could, you could, I, there's probably, we could talk for three days going, what kind of hybrid can we have of a, and I'm sure we can, you know, there's this rich spirit of a ghost, and then we're going to put some herbs in its head and pull off that, you know, we can go there. But, a poppet is a magical creation we create, we create with the world to do a specific job, protection, health, love, money, whatever that is. And with a haunted doll, especially calling in a spirit, you're going to get that spirit. I do believe you give them guidelines and like you would children, dogs, cats, and everything else. But, they're not there just to bring you money or love or anything like that. It's, it's going to be a new member of your family.

Chelle: Can a doll maybe exude energy, but not necessarily be haunted?

Patti: Yes, it can. Again, that's part of that, maybe it collected so much place it was, just like, I love when I go back East, come into West, cuz it's so much older. There's older things. Go across the pond, it's even more. Everything accepts almost like a smell, but it's not a smell, the energy of a thing or a place. Belle, my number one doll, she was sent to me, a, a girl in Belgium had, she had made this girl sick for like three years, made her hair fall out. But, she had saw me on television doing a seance with Peggy the doll, now in Zak Bagans' museum, but at that time, he didn't even own her. And she figured if I could handle a seance with Peggy, I could handle Belle. So, she asked, she sent her to me. The doll, from the second I had, I had, I had to put it on Facebook Live, and I'd never done a Facebook, and the doll got 50,000 views. Not me, the doll. Crazy. But, I opened it up, and it had such a dark presence. I would not let the, I knew there was a good presence inside, I knew it, but I would not let the sun set, not, you know, my husband has had some health issues, my dog and my cat, they're going to go, I would not let the sun set without banishing the dark spirit. I banished the dark spirit. I knew there was a good spirit, but it was so buried. I gave it time. But, she drained your energy for so long, I had to, when people would, she would make you tired and drain. I used to keep little, little packets of rue and different herbs in her hand so she didn't drain your energy while she was becoming part of the family. And you could tell, again, by small children or animals, from avoiding her to laying by her. Okay, you feel it now, they feel it now, she's safe, she didn't draw, drain energy anymore.

Laylla: That's a very good point that you just brought up, is that's a, that's a good way to tell, I think even through pictures, if you are going to look for a doll that is energetic or haunted, you can tell. There's a feeling, and, and children and animals can definitely tell, and you'll see in their reactions to some of these items. And I, I love that you pointed out, like, Chelle, you were asking about the difference between something that's haunted and something that's energetic. And we had an episode not too long ago after I came back from visiting Zak Bagans' museum about can objects remember? And yes, I do believe they can, and, and you also believe that. You said dolls that get loved and, and hold onto some of that energy, they hold onto that. They're not exactly haunted, but they have such a strong remembering of that energy that they were around that they exude that energy back out when someone else is touching them or around them. Is, is that what the question that you were kind of asking?

Chelle: Yeah, yeah. And and I guess kind of where that comes from is a quick story I want to tell you, Patti. I have here, and and we'll post pictures of these cute little dolls I have.

Patti: Oh, they're beautiful.

Chelle: I have this doll here. Now, the history behind it is my mother and father bought a house three weeks before I was born, that we'll say was give or take 50 years ago. And within the last year, my child bought the home from my mother.

Patti: Oh, wow.

Chelle: So, my mother has had 50 years of collecting and stuffing things in places, and so my daughter was going through the eaves troughs of the house, which no one's been in the eaves troughs in years. And in the very depth back corner, in the way, way back of the eaves trough, my daughter finds this doll. And she freaks out, and she's like, "It's got to be Grandma's. I don't know. Take it. Get it out of my house. I don't want it here. It freaks me out." So, I take the doll, and I look at I look up the markings on the back of the neck, and the doll happens to be in a similar time frame to when my mother would have been three or four years old. So, this doll dates back to late '40s, early '50s. So, I call my mother, and I'm like, "You know, hey, my daughter found your doll. I have it." She's like, "What are you talking about? Send me a picture." I send her a picture. "That's not my doll." I'm like, "The hell it is, because this doll was in the attic for 50 years. What do you mean this is..." She's like, "That's not my doll." She's like, "I've never seen that doll before." And I mean, it's got handmade clothes on it.

Patti: Yeah, it's beautiful.

Chelle: And my mother has no idea where this doll came from, and I now have it because my daughter can't cope with it being in the in her house, and even my significant other doesn't like it to necessarily be out and around and open. And I think it's the sweetest thing. But then I'm like, where did this doll come from? How did it get in the house? We lived in that house for 50 years. Like, where did this doll come from? But I think she's she's delightful.

Patti: She is beautiful. And go by what your gut your feeling. And we know, again, as intuitive people, we know that like if you're making your choices by fear or, "I don't like..." whatever, that's one thing. But if your your heart your heart's not going to lie. Yes, we use our logic. Yes, we use our intuition. That heart is just going to be its purest. Maybe it is in the house because you were supposed to have it, Chelle. You were supposed to find the doll. I I'm getting that it was almost it I believe that your mom doesn't know, and it wasn't hers, but it was somebody else's, or somebody gave it, "Oh, give this to your child," and then her mother didn't, or something like that. It was actually put up there by a real human, not by a spirit floating down, but just never became part of the the family.

Chelle: Family.

Patti: Oh, and then was just forever forgotten just so you could have it.

Chelle: Maybe the reason that I feel some sort of not haunted, but I feel some sort of energy emanating from could be because it has been in my childhood home forever, and it could be that type of attachment. But I feel like it exudes an energy, but I would not say this is a haunted doll per se.

Laylla: I almost feel like this doll was given to your mother to give to her child. This that doll was given as a gift to your mother, and she put it away. I know. I feel like that was put away for you, and I feel like I feel very much that that's why she never played with that doll, that was never her doll, and she forgot all about it. But the intent of the gift of that doll was for you.

Patti: I think you're right. That's why she's yours and she's not your daughter's. I got goosebumps on that, Laylla. I got goosebumps on that.

Chelle: So, I should have had this doll 50 years ago is what you're saying.

Patti: No, you should have it right now.

Laylla: Right now. Yes, I think it came now when you need it. I think so. I don't know why, but not a doll fan.

Chelle: Now, Patti, one thing that you and Chelle have in common is you both talk a lot about intent, that your intent energetically is very, very important. And I do feel that that is a big key, particularly when working energetically with with any object or or with spirits. I feel that your intent can very much make or break how well you handle or how well you deal with these types of energies. Can you tell us a little bit about about that?

Patti: Yes, intent is everything. Again, that and we could talk that in very scientific-y, neuroscience terms, or we could talk it in woo-woo or witchy terms, or we could talk in whatever. But our our intent is for our whole life. You know, it's like, "I'm going to bring this doll. It's going to make me happy, and it's going to give me memories that I didn't even realize I had and remember." You know, or, "This is going to be hell, and..." We create it, and we open these doorways for things.

Laylla: That's a good point. I love that.

Chelle: Yeah, I I think that goes right along with, you know, whatever you project out comes back to you. If you're projecting out negative, negative comes back. If you're projecting out positive, positive comes back.

Patti: Cause and effect, action and reaction, what we put out, all of that. And again, with a doll, you have a face, and that that does something to our humanity. Like, I I love walking into antique stores or thrift stores, because you're going to feel it in the vase and the tchotchke and the old pillows and the the linens and bedding. But all of a sudden, you get to the thing that's got it's looking at you with those little eyes and smiling at you with those funny little doll teeth. It's beautiful.

Laylla: And people definitely feel energetically from those, particularly if they give them a reminder of of childhood or a reminder of something that they had before.

Patti: Yeah. And and again, like this this little doll, this is this is Cheryl. Whoops. This is Cheryl. This is Belle, my friend who said, "I'm sending you a doll." She got it at a thrift store or something. So, Belle has her own little dolly. Not haunted, 100% not haunted. Not haunted. I've It was I was teaching one of my classes, psychic protection, which was funny at my school. She was sitting here just because I thought she looked cute. All the dolls back there, she was sitting here. Both my hands were on in in front of camera, and I'm speaking into my Zoom just like this. All of a sudden, this doll moved six inches into like this, into frame.

Laylla: Oh, wow.

Patti: I didn't even notice, because I'm staring at the Zoom frame. My hands were both here. Nobody else was home. My my dachshund can't reach. I didn't even notice it, but my students did. I'm like, "But she's not haunted. She's not haunted. She's not even not even that inspirited, really. She's just this beautiful little..." I blew up the little video, and I watched an orb come out of my bookcase right here into this doll, move this doll six inches, and then fly out of the doll. So, I do think it was Belle moving her doll onto camera so she had a better angle.

Laylla: I just saw an orb in the back from the moon going to the black doll. That's wild.

Patti: I have a very active house. It's not a dusty house. It's an active house. I have a my house came with a beautiful ghost, a French artist named Adrienne who lived here from the '60s until '98. My husband and I moved in in early 2000s, and she was still here, all her And in the basement was all her possessions, her art. She was an artist, and they're all on my walls. My house is an ode to the woman who owned it before. And still is.

Laylla: But I do have to ask you, before we get off of this slightly tangent subject here, in the background, Patti, one of your dolls keeps attracting my attention. It's the only one whose face is blurry on camera, and it's freaking me out a little bit. But it's I believe it's a baby doll that's somewhat kind of behind you.

Patti: It's the white the white one. This one?

Laylla: That one right there. That's the one. That doll's face is blurry, and none of the other dolls' faces are blurred out.

Patti: That's so funny.

Chelle: It's completely blurred out on my end, too.

Patti: What? What? That's Stay there. Stay there, little one. This I call her baby doll. She has an energy and a presence. She's not not haunted, but she has an energy and a presence. What she was, and she looks like one of those looking real babies. I was doing a clearing at a client's house. And somebody wants a haunted doll and spirited, you have to be careful of this. But she wanted everything out, everything out. She didn't want any kind of spirit presence, just spick-and-span. So, we're cleaning the house, and then I'm in her dining room, and this little doll was there. I'm like, "Oh, what a cute little doll." Wasn't thinking haunted. She's like, "Take it. It's haunted. Take it. I don't want it." And I'm like, "Oh, sure." But I think if she ever was haunted, we got rid of that. She wanted everything else. So, again, if you're doing clearings, you don't want to get rid of everything if there's spirits and energies that you want. But she is she's been taking on more of an energy, so that's probably why. Is she clear now on camera?

Laylla: Yes, she is. Yep. She's clear now, but yeah.

Patti: See, that happens to me. It's an energy. I, you know, I'm on camera all the time, stills or whatever. And seances is one of my things. I'm just something else.

Laylla: Another orb just flew over. I saw it, too.

Patti: We both saw it.

Chelle: We both saw it.

Patti: Amen. Amen. So, anyway, I have probably dozens, if not hundreds, of photos with kind of a darkish room, uh maybe we're in a circle, maybe around a table, maybe it's a 60-person circle, there is no table. Every single person is clear except mine. Mine is completely because it's the energy. I'm whether I'm channeling it at that moment or whatever that is, just dozens. Clear, clear, clear, blurry, clear, clear, clear. So, that's what she was doing. She you were feeling her energy. How cool is that?

Laylla: Absolutely. Now, in your book, you also talk about that as well, you know, energetic dolls, the energy around objects and things like that. Can you tell us about a time when you put an energy into an object for a purpose, maybe for protection or or something to that effect?

Patti: Oh, my favorite, again, going into a my little poppets. I know I know we're not on camera, but this is my poppet. This it's I'm not very artsy-craftsy, as you can see.

Laylla: But that's the thing with poppets, you don't have to be.

Patti: You don't have to be. This is some of my better work, actually. I have worse. But she's me. She's signed by me. She has things. She wears a little pentacle that I always wear. So, she's got the taglocks. But she has been my little baby for so ever. I keep her well-protected. But literally, and she's health and well-being. But if I if I fall down and I bump my head, because I don't get sick, but bump my head, I go, "Oh, I don't I can get a headache from this." I will literally stick little pins in this doll's head. It's sympathetic magic. It's sympathetic magic. So, it's like she can take this on and not me, and and do whatever. You can make these for your kids, your dogs, again, all sorts of specific things. So, the other half of the book is every kind of poppet you could ever, ever make. One of my favorite ones, though, is just paper. Paper poppets, because I like to I want to be environmental, and I like to burn some or put some in water, in waterways and streams or oceans. So, I get the most biodegradable little paper I can, use proper herbs, and and do as natural as I can, that this can be safely burned or buried or put into a waterway. But again, I keep everything high vibration for whatever. I don't do manipulative magic. I had this one, and I won't let something dark in my house. I had this one doll, you spoke of Zak's museum. And it was given to me by a client, a friend, actually a rock star client friend. And it was cute. It looked like a New Orleans thing, and kind of voodoo-y looking, but it was fine. It didn't have a spirit. All of a sudden, I noticed I was spending no time in my office. I love my little office. I and I was like, "Take my laptop upstairs, go outside on the phone." It's like, "Why?" I'm looking at my beautiful Barbies. "Why am I not spending any time here?" And I looked around, like, "Oh, it's you. It's that little doll." And I'm like, "You've taken on something that I didn't give you, that whatever." So, me just being me, I called Zak Bagans. I go, "Zak, I I won't put dark in my house. I have something too dark for my house. Do you want it for your museum? I'll give it to you." And he's like, "Well, send me a picture. What is it?" I send a picture. He goes, "Ooh, that's a nail fetish hate doll. Yeah, I want that." Great. So, I took it there the next day to Vegas, gave it to him. It started acting up that night, the tour guide said, that night. But now it's in a perfect place, not somewhere that people try to live and sleep and, you know, live and survive. It's in a place that you go to to get haunted things. It's that is well-warded and stuff. So, yeah, you feel out your feel what if you get into dolls or tchotchkes or anything, awareness.

Laylla: That leads in very nicely to my next question is about boundaries. And what do you do if you happen upon a a doll or an item that does have a negative energy that you're not sure how to deal with, and you don't have Zak Bagans on speed dial? So, what what is a witch to do then?

Patti: Well, I I do believe anything can be cleansed. Like, whatever that dark energy was on Belle when I got her, that literally made that woman and her young child sick and made their hair I don't have enough hair to hair fall out. I was able to get it out with a very simple banishing. Work within your your cosmology, your path, whatever you do. If you're Christian, pray over it, you know. If you're pagan, work elementally, work with your deities, work with your gods. I I believe anything and I haven't not found 99.9% that we can can be cleared and cleansed. Some things harder than others, some things easier than others. And if need be, I do show you how to do a funeral, you know, or like with a poppet, take it apart. Or or if you're going to sell it and make a lot of money on eBay, the darker the better on eBay. But again, be honest about it. Let people know what they're getting, and I would give them big warnings, like, "But this might make you sick. This might drain your energy." Um but there is work work within your path to cleanse. I still believe light beats dark, no matter what. And I go into the scariest places all over the planet. And I'm not of I mean, I'm afraid, but I like to get afraid. But it's like, you know, bring a candle into a dark room, you've brought in the light. Yes, it illuminates those dark scary shadows everywhere, but you've brought in the light. So, that that philosophy has served me since I was about five years old.

Laylla: Can you tell us something recently that you have been on that, you know, really surprised you or or was, you know, really shocking or scary?

Patti: I could tell you any of the above. The darkest place I know, and I've talked about this, is the Cecil Hotel right here in Los Angeles. That's the one where the girl was found in the water tower. I've been there probably more than anybody. I did a two-episode Ghost Adventures, a four-episode overnight with Elton and Matt Rife and all those guys. I've done a CW show. And that place makes you want to die. It makes you want to kill yourself. It makes you want to And many people have there, unfortunately. And many people and Richard Ramirez and that I didn't know I was going, and and Zak is always last minute. He's like, "Can you get here in two hours?" I'm like, "What? I'm in bed. Did I wash my hair today? What?" Um but I get there, and I'm like, "Oh, this I saw the thing. That's that water tower girl. I I don't I didn't remember how many serial killers lived there or babies out window. But every step I took from parking, and it is Skid Row. A rat didn't want to let me in. And usually they scuttle away. He scuttled towards. I'd go right, he'd go right. I'd go left, he'd go left. And I'm like, "Are you possessed? Are you trying to protect me? I don't know." And I was so depressed by the time I got to the front door, I just wanted to die. And the guys had been there for hours. They had their cameras. They were fine. Zak's like, "Okay, Patti, there's 14 floors, there's 700 rooms, all of them are unlocked. You tell us where to go." And I was like, "I want to die. I just want I go I go I go..." I lead them to the elevator, and then, "Oh, this is that elevator where that girl played that paranoid push the buttons thing." I let them ride up to a room, and I'm like, "I've just got to get out of here. I've got to..." And I go, and I'm opening a window, and Zak's yelling at me. He's like, "Patti, sit down. What are you..." And I'm in a trance. I let myself go trance. Where he goes, and I'm like a little girl going, "Why is he yelling at me? Zak doesn't yell at me. Why..." And and I'm opening the window. And he finally made me sit down. Out of the 700 rooms, I led them to a room somebody had jumped out that exact window. And here I am opening a window that didn't even have a screen on it on a high floor going, "I got to get out of here. Bye-bye."

Laylla: Wow. Wow. Wow.

Patti: And then I led them to a room where a woman had been raped and murdered, my second room. And I'm sitting there holding myself like an eight-year-old who has to go pee. That place is crazy. Then I went back with Elton, and I thought I was channeling, because I channel, you don't always It's dream state, you guys know. And I I thought I was just chattering away, talking or whatever. Um all they heard was gibberish. One of the guy goes, "We should play that backwards." I was talking English backwards.

Laylla: Wow. Wow.

Patti: I don't I couldn't do that if you paid me a million dollars. I'm so dyslexic. I could probably spell Patti backwards, y-t-t-a-p, I don't know, i-t-t-a-p. No. I couldn't do it. That's just crazy. And and that's it's now, at the last few years, it's a Section 8, they're trying to move in homeless and low income. Great concept, 700 empty rooms, homeless people. But if it makes me, a relatively sane, super optimistic person, want to kill yourself, what is it going to do to these people who have PTSD from being on the streets, drug and alcohol problem? It's terrible. I

Laylla: Places, not just objects, but places hold on to energy, and that is one of those very, very dark places. Like you said, serial killers stayed there, very disturbed people have stayed there, very horrific things have happened there. You walk there, and as a sensitive, I cannot even imagine how you made it through that place, because being as sensitive as you are, that is no matter how many shields you have, some of that's going to seep through, I imagine. It's just so much. And now, places can do that, and objects can hold on to energy, like we were talking about dolls being uh inspirited, not necessarily uh haunted, but holding on to that kind of energy. And again, in the Stone Witches Hour, we talked about places, particularly that have like running water, limestone, places like that tend to hold some of this energy a lot more than others. Have you found is it dolls in particular, or are there any type of objects or things that you find tend to hold energy better than others, or hold negative or positive energy more than something else?

Patti: I think it's the spirit of place, the play. Doll, as far as articles, again, the older, the more it's going to have energy, like anything. But dolls because I think they have the face. But me, it's the ground underneath us. It is the ground underneath us. You're going to feel Gettysburg one thing, and Hollywood is Hollywood because there's these big energy creative energy vortexes right by the Hollywood sign, halfway between Hollywood and Burbank, the two entertainment capitals of the world. But by by my house, I live right under that Hollywood sign. Besides that, every person who lives here is a creative, a musician, a this, a that, a write. I have eight major religious organizations within a mile of me, everything from a Catholic monastery to Vedanta Society, Self-Realization Fellowship, the Theosophy Center, the Krotona Society was here. It draws in the creative, right-brained people, whatever that is, and these little vortexes dot all the way down to Malibu, but biggest in Hollywood. And that's why I think Hollywood isn't 20 miles this way or 20 miles that way. And it's a love-hate place. Some people are like, "No, no, no." And some people, "Oh, yes." And but, you know, live a place that you feel that place under you. But because I do travel so much, you know, I've just found a place in Arkansas I fell in love with. Romania, parts of Romania. And we know all the places that we know are strong. Oh, go to Sedona, Arizona, go to Shasta, go to here. But every place, every place has its own spirit. And and find the ones that what where you're going to get the magic out of that spirit.

Chelle: I love that. That's definitely the witch side of you and not the psychic investigator side of you coming out right there.

Patti: Right there. Very much so.

Laylla: We agree that same thing, that those spirits of place can be so, so very strong. And you can call upon them. In times when I have tried to help someone with negative energies in a space, calling upon the the land spirits, the the actual spirits of that place to help you cleanse a negative energy that may have moved in can be one of your most powerful allies, no matter what you believe. Because this is their place, too, you know. You live here, it's their space. If something negative comes in, those land spirits can be the ones, if if you've worked with them, hopefully, or you have a good relationship with them, they're going to really help you to drive out that negative energy.

Patti: 100%. 100%.

Laylla: Again, we've talked about a little bit, I've seen you in some of your some of your TV shows that you've been on actually call ritual and and do ritual in a haunted place. Can you tell us a little bit about that or or give any tips or advice to someone who is creating boundaries or casting circle trying to cleanse a space like that?

Patti: Again, learn, study. However, it's very easy to do than when I was young or, you know, the information...

Laylla: Right, right. Well, in the '80s, there was not so much. There certainly was no YouTube.

Patti: We had, you know, yeah, yeah. We and again, you have to be careful. Use your discernment. Some things are better than others, but trust what's going to work. But yeah, the one thing I do want because everybody's on TV now, whether you have your your own podcast or your YouTube, everybody can do it. Be careful what you say. I am really careful. My Ghost Adventures boys are now, if they're doing heavy ritual where you shift something, they will cut that out because I this here's my best, I've told it before, but I was doing is in my neighborhood. Again, I live in the oldest 1920s neighborhood in in Hollywood built for the first movie enclave. There'll be a big movie star mansion next to a little working writer's bungalow next to the movie star mansion. I've got one of the little writer's bungalows. But this one house around the corner built by Charlie Chaplin for one of his many lovers and many starlets and many houses he built, Mary Astor was her name. And it was a super party house in the '20s, and they knew how to party in the '20s and '30s and '40s. They were party people, which can bring in a dark, and it can bring in dark energy. No judgment there. And it was super party house. Um, and then in the '60s, the Rolling Stones manager bought it. So the Stones stayed there, Mamas and the Papas, Gram Parsons. Super party house bringing in the the house is getting more and creative, talented people. And then they moved out, and then the person who invented the real-life sex doll moved in. And then it got too spooky for him, and he moved out. And then my neighbor, Marilyn Manson, moved in. And recorded there in the dirt basement, always a dirt basement as we know. But this house is uber haunted. So we're shooting a documentary called The Mary Astor House about how haunted it is. It looks like it was built by Masons, sacred geometry everywhere. There's literally a compass drawn in the entryway floor.

Laylla: Really?

Patti: Leaded glass, a four-level spiral staircase, everything spirits like, everything that moves energy. But my one rule with everything is believe, don't believe, skeptics, great, but you have to be respectful. This one kid was getting disrespectful. And again, not my shoot, it's not like I'm running my thing. We had a four-camera shoot, pretty big good-sized shoot. Four-camera shoot. This one kid was getting disrespectful. And so first cool things were happening, like the French doors would fly open, these old Hollywood French doors, and the cameras would catch it. And the producer side of me is going, "This is awesome." I'd I'd never fake anything, but wow, spirits are doing good. And then that happened again, and then he said something else, and I'm feeling this pressure and this unhappy spirit. And then the speakers came on like white noise, sounding like a spirit box. Cuz this is, you know, like we used to be how big can your speakers be versus how little can your speakers be? Came on like old whatever kind of, um, it wasn't even plugged in, we looked later. But I felt this pressure growing. And then this kid said one more ridiculous, stupid thing. And not him, but the cameraman facing him, you guys, literally burst into flames. Like up his back, angel wings of fire up his back. He was not standing in front of a fireplace or a candle. This was spontaneous combustion like that. Two cameras actually caught it, which was good. One camera started filming the the ceiling or the floor. You test the metal and strength of a of a camera person by a small room with a lot of people bursting into flames. Me, cool witch medium Patti becomes medic Patti, of which I am as well. I'm EMT certified, cert- certified cardiology tech. You have to be.

Laylla: You're like excellent to have on investigation. That's...

Patti: Triage, okay. But anyway, I become witch, "Drop and roll, drop and roll." I am calling in my guardians, I'm calling in my, "This is not okay." I have never stopped filming in my life, I've never stopped a seance, but this is dangerous. He could die, we could all die. This is a small room. This is not okay. People don't combust. I'm looking at the blistering on his back. His shirt burnt off him like it was a synthetic nylon or polyester. It was heavy cotton. It shouldn't have burnt off like that. And I'm like, "Drop," you know. But the guy who caught on fire, who was a super skeptic, super skeptic, he was so thrilled by getting caught on fire. He was like, "I have a sweater I could put on. I'm looking at the blistering. I'm okay." He was so thrilled by, and the kid who caused it with his disrespect was no longer going to be disrespectful.

Laylla: Yeah. Yeah. Wow.

Patti: At all. He was like a choir boy in the corner. So I talked to the ghost, I'm looking for something right. I talked to the spirit, I'm like, "Come on, don't do this. We are not here to hurt you. We're not even going to banish you. Just let us finish this." So we did. Crazy stuff, glasses flying out. We can make the frog start and stop talking on request and demand. Crazy stuff. But the cool part of that is three weeks later, this cameraman, who is a filmmaker in his own right, Laurent Malaquais, he did the Bronies film, which broke all sorts of things, documentary. But he's like, "Patti, look at my back." The small of his back where I'd seen the blistering, he showed me a picture. He totally looked like he had went and got a tattoo of a dragon.

Laylla: Really?

Patti: Open mouth, sharp teeth, winged head, into the shape of a serpent. And that is the exact energy I called in to shut down the seance. I work dragon, my dragon crossroads energy. I am looking at it, it looks like he got a tattoo. And I'm like, "Oh my god, you have a tramp stamp of a dragon." That is the absolute coolest thing I'd ever seen, and and he thought so, too. He actually wrote a movie about it. They haven't done it yet, but he wrote it with Stephen Norrington, the guy from League of Extraordinary Gentlemen and the Blade series. But going back to why I even started the story, I sat down with him for 5 hours going, "Laurent, you can't say that on camera." He's like, "Patti, you said that." I go, "I know I did. You have a..." I go, "But that actually caused a shift in energy. You don't want to be one of those cursed horror films, do you?" It happens all the time. Spirits, energies, deity don't know the difference of an actor saying lines and somebody really opening up a portal to hell. So we change the words so that they'll be just as creative or spooky or magical or mystical, but they are not going to cause something. So I'm glad more and more shows, TV shows, movies are using consultants like me to, so number one, get it right, and number two, not to be dangerous, cuz it happens all the time. If you're doing a voodoo movie, get a voodoo priest or priestess in. You're doing witchcraft, get a witch, get a practitioner.

Chelle: I I totally agree 100% with you. And and I love that you do that, and maybe someday in a better life, Laylla and I can do that, too. But I love that...

Patti: Yes.

Chelle: ...I love that you do that because people do take stock in what they see online, what they see in the movies, what they see on TV. So if you're going to present it, present it in a in a way that is safe and accurate and respectful.

Patti: It's helpful.

Chelle: So I love that you I love that you're doing the consulting thing now.

Patti: Yeah, and you guys can do it now. I mean, it may not be a Hollywood movie your first thing, but again, every doesn't don't you know other people with podcasts and radio shows and their own YouTube channel and their TikTok?

Chelle: Yeah.

Patti: Offer your services, and they will eat it up.

Laylla: You know, that's a very good point you said about, um, sometimes you'll edit out if someone says something that actually does open a portal or does excite something energetically, that that's kind of important to edit out. There have been times, I think, when Chelle and I have been doing things, and I've read an invocation, and we've had people message us be like, "Did Laylla just call something into my house without meaning to?" And I'm like, "Oh, shoot, maybe I should go back and edit that." Cuz, you know, listening back, you can hear that energy coming through when you do something like that. So are there any times in your life where you have accidentally called a spirit into, say, a doll or into an object, or or is it even possible to accidentally do something like that? To kind of go on a tangent from from the...

Patti: Yeah, I I think it is possible. Again, it's about passion and commitment. I don't think I have because I am all about intent. Intent is where we and and impression what I'm thinking, doing, feeling, saying, what my end goal, whatever that is. But you can, and and we and weirdly, we do it in day-to-day life with success and failure and struggle and everything that we do along the way. We call in just that spirit of that. But I think you can. Again, if somebody's passionate about something, whatever that thing is, we can call in or create, either one, spirits and entities and invite or creating what that is. Yes. I don't believe there's time and space on the other side at all. So like right now, we're all together in in the spirit world. There we're sitting around the same table. That's my seances are just the same if it's on YouTube or we're on the other side of the planet.

Laylla: This is essentially our digital seance right here, basically, is what we're having.

Patti: Yes.

Laylla: Yes. So I I agree with you. I do I don't think it can actually happen accidentally. I think you have to have that intent there, like you said. I do think the intent has to be there. And I do also believe that conversely, if your intent is to cleanse something or to banish something or to help something go to rest, that if you have good belief and good intent in that, if you are trained, if you have faith in that training, I guess, and your intent is strong, I think that works that way as well. Do you believe that as well, if someone's going to try to to cleanse something?

Patti: 100%. 100%. Yeah, and again, work within your belief system. Make it up as you go. That's what we do. In my first book, my Old World Magick for the Modern World book, um, I do, "Here's a simple house cleaning." You don't have to have the fancy stuff. You don't have to hit pots and pans, clear. Go counterclockwise. Get rid of, get rid of, get rid of. And then, okay, now we're going to fill it back up. Love, health, intent. Who comes into your house? Only people invited in. What comes in that window? Fresh air, inspiration, opportunity. What do you want in your bedroom? Great, fill it back up clockwise, clockwise. You don't have to have the, I mean, if you have mugwort, great, but you don't have mugwort, use whatever you got. Here's your salt, here's your cinnamon, here's your basil leaves. Yes.

Laylla: Oh, you are a witch after our own hearts, Patti. That is absolutely perfect.

Patti: Whatever you got. Yeah.

Laylla: Well, on that note, Patti, thank you so much for joining us here. Could you please tell our listeners where they can find you over the next coming weeks?

Patti: Oh, I am all over the place. Always go to pattinegri.com, cuz you can get to all my social media, you can get to my podcast, you can get to hundreds of videos of me teaching things for free, you can get to my school, of which I do have a school, blah, blah, blah. And also my upcoming, um, this Friday, this weekend, I'm actually doing something back in LA, which is rare. I'm doing an immersive event both combining my the witchcraft and ritual with the paranormal investigation with my friend, Pixie, and priestess, Ashley Ryan. She's also kind of well-known that crosses over the witchy and paranormal, so that's our immersive event. Then I am heading out, um, I'm filming in Phoenix, but then I'm headed to Salem for the Vampire Ball and doing a bunch of I got three or four trips to Salem in the next couple months, three or four trips to New Jersey. Then I'm going to Pennsylvania for a really two events. I'm doing Underworld Culture Convention on the September, um, 18th through 21. I'm doing a seance in an old train station. I'm teaching doll class doll craft class and another class. And then at the same time, we got a Ghost Adventures thing that people can go to at Pennhurst, 2 hours away. So they moved my seance from Saturday to Friday, so I can and my class Saturday morning, then I'm going to get in the car, drive to Pennhurst, do Pennhurst from 2:00 p.m. to 3:00 a.m., sleep 2 hours, get in the car, drive back to Scranton.

Laylla: You actually get to sleep? They let you sleep for 2 hours in there?

Patti: Yeah, yeah, I have to give me a little hotel just sleep for a couple hours. Because after, yeah, I'm I'm again, this that funny little world of ours. It's like if you do the conventions, which I I love them, and they do, it's like all day you're hawking your books and you're talking to people and all all day, and then, oh, now it's time for a 8:00 p.m. seance, all right. Okay, now it's time for a midnight paranormal investigation, okay. And then you get home at 3:00 or 4:00 in the morning, and then you got to get up at 8:00 in the morning, and...

Laylla: And right back at it.

Patti: ...right back at it. Yep, but I I love it. I created it, all of it, and as we do. So, yeah.

Chelle: It sounds like you've got a great couple of weeks coming up.

Patti: I do. And and then it gets busy. Then we get...

Laylla: All right. Well, if you would like to see this very busy witch, check out pattinegri.com. You can check out all her socials, check out her schedule, find her at one of these investigations. You also do, um, I believe you have services on your website as well, so if people need to get in touch with you for classes or any type of services, that's all there, too.

Patti: Absolutely.

Laylla: And check out her book, Dollcraft: A Witch's Guide to Poppet Magick & Haunted Dolls. That is through Llewellyn, so check that out wherever you get your books. And again, thank you so much, Patti. This has been a very fun conversation. We really appreciate you coming on the podcast.

Patti: Thank you. You guys are great hosts, so thank you for all that you do for our community. Thank you.

Laylla: Thank you. Thank you so much.

Chelle: And thank you for meeting my dolls.

Patti: They're beautiful. Thank you for those pictures. They're beautiful.

Chelle: Oh, we definitely will.

Laylla: Thank you so much to Patti Negri for joining us on Back on the Broomstick. And thank you all for listening to this episode. Man, she was a lot of fun.

Chelle: You know, this this was one of those conversations we could have had for another 3 and 1/2 hours, and I'd have been totally okay with that.

Laylla: We have talked about some of the places that she has been to, so I definitely want to pick her brain. We'll have to have her back, maybe closer to Samhain one of these days. Thank you all again for listening to this episode. Please like, subscribe, give us a review, give us some stars. It really helps the show out, and it helps other people, too, find us. So, we will see you next week. In the meantime, be wise, be wicked, don't buy any haunted dolls.

Chelle: And keep it witchy.
