Laylla: Welcome to Back on the Broomstick, a modern witches' spoken word grimoire, where two witchy friends from way back are reconnecting to their pagan roots after a long period of mundanity. We're rewalking the path of the wise and trying out all the latest spells, rituals, and magical theory in today's witchcraft and pagan practices. So grab your wand and your incense, your cauldron and your crystals, and join us as we get back on the broomstick.

Laylla: Hi, and welcome to Back on the Broomstick. I'm Laylla, and on this episode, we're talking about one of the eight sabbats of the wheel of the year, Mabon, sometimes called Harvest Home. And that's a controversy we'll kind of get into. We're also talking about gratitude and balance, and where your hearth and home is.

Chelle: And I'm Chelle, and you know, this is a time of year where I think, things come into perspective more. I don't know if it's the the fun of the summer coming to an end, or if it's just the seasons changing, but I feel like it's a good time to take stock.

Laylla: And it's also a freaking reckoning, because I don't know if any of you out there are gardeners in any way, shape, or form, but holy cow, this second harvest is kind of kicking my ass. Not because I have a ton of abundance, because we didn't go too overboard with planting things this year, but figuring out what to do with it now is kind of the big thing. You know, I'm very grateful for what we have, but I kind of have to figure out what to do with it. So, we're going to get into that a little bit, too, later in the episode. But, you know, this second harvest is all about that abundance, and what do you do with it now?

Chelle: She says that as she's pounding down zucchini bread by the loaf.

Laylla: Yeah, what do you do with all those zucchinis? And to be honest, I don't know if if this is going to survive through the recording, but in my office right now is a very persistent cricket. I don't know where it is, but it has taken refuge in one of my plants, I think, or somewhere, and I can't find it. So, if you hear a cricket repeatedly throughout this episode, that's just Lucky, and he's just hanging out here waiting for winter, because that's what we're all kind of preparing for, right? We're enjoying the abundance, but part of this whole Mabon thing is getting ready for winter, getting ready for the dark season.

Chelle: And you know, we want to be able to look back with gratitude. It is the season of reward and and reaping what you've sown, but we want to look back with gratitude, because yes, sometimes the harvest season is bountiful and wonderful and abundant as it is, it can be stressful, like you said, and and in almost a strain, because it's like feast or famine. You've gone all summer watching these things grow, watching these things flourish, and now everything is ready all at once. What the hell are you doing?

Laylla: Yeah.

Chelle: So, it is a good time, you know, and that can that can happen to us spiritually and just in our minds in the regular world as well. So, it's a good time to kind of take stock and look back and be grateful, because yeah, it might seem hard right now, and it might seem like a lot of work, but it's definitely something to be grateful for, and I think we forget that.

Laylla: And I also think one of the things that you that you touched on was that this is the season for a lot of stress. A lot of people, this is the season when it's back to school, maybe it's back to work for some people if you have the summers off. It's also a big time of holidays coming up, a lot of expense, a lot of travel, a lot of people coming into your space, very peopley time of year. And let's face it, there's the pumpkin spice monster that we all have to overcome this time of year. But there's a lot there, so it's not just being grateful, you know, because Harvest Home, Mabon, is about celebrating your friends, your family, the things that you've got in your life, but it's also the equinox. It's also the autumn equinox, and there's light and dark there. So, it's not just being grateful, but it's also, I think, taking action towards that, kind of finding that balance of, I'm grateful for this, but here's what I'm going to do for it next, and here's what I'm going to do to keep it going.

Chelle: It's good to keep into perspective, you know, look what we've built. We are full, we are capable, um, we're grateful.

Laylla: I think we hear that a lot, especially this time of year, you hear grateful, grateful, grateful, grateful. So, I just think we should add to it, I'm grateful, and here's what I'm going to do in addition to that. But before we get too far ahead of ourselves, I wanted to talk a little bit about one of the things that we're calling Mabon, which is Harvest Home. The autumn equinox has a couple different names. You keep mentioning Harvest Home, so for those who aren't familiar with the concept you're talking about, or what you mean by that, give us a little background on the Harvest Home, because I've definitely been slow to the catch up on this as well.

Laylla: All right, well, we've talked in a couple episodes about the holiday of Mabon, the autumn equinox. It was named Mabon by Aidan Kelly back in the 1970s, and he fully admits that he was really just trying to flesh out and balance this wheel of the year holidays, these eight holidays.

Chelle: Kind of fill a gap.

Laylla: Yeah, and the spring and the autumn equinoxes weren't necessarily celebrated by a lot of ancient people, so there wasn't a lot of precedent to go on. But because they fit in this solar cycle, in this wheel of the year holidays, they were important, and I still feel that they're important, even if they weren't anciently celebrated. So, he just kind of pulled some names out of his ass, essentially, and he will fully admit to this. And Mabon, I guess, Modron, his mother, more so, was loosely associated with harvest and agrarianism, so he kind of pulled Mabon into that. And I'm okay with that. I see why he did that, but some people think that because Mabon doesn't really have anything to do with the autumn equinox, that a different name would be better. And Harvest Home is one that has been used since the early '80s. It's been catching on a lot. You'll see it more and more often, and I guess there's even some controversy on TikTok. You and I, we're not we're not on on WitchTok as much as maybe we should be, but I guess calling it Mabon has become somewhat controversial. And while I don't think it's that bad, I do love the idea of Harvest Home because it really fits with the idea of what this second harvest festival, this autumn equinox, is all about. We had a conversation prior to recording, uh, where we talked about, yes, Samhain is the third harvest, but we're not really celebrating that then.

Laylla: Right, we celebrate like the end of the harvest. We're not really celebrating what you might think of, especially now, as harvest, like abundance and and gathering fullness to you.

Chelle: It's almost like celebrating that chapter ending. So, when you said it that way, it gave me the perspective that you're right, this is kind of that that home and hearth time. This is when we're starting to maybe not fully gather in, but start to think about and start gathering in a little bit. And it is getting to be the peopley time of year, but that also gives us time to take stock, maybe in our friends and family and those relationships, and, you know, maybe what we wanted to change or grow or flourish in those relationships. So, I do like the concept of, I don't want to say the name change, because that's not really what it is, but I like this name because it makes it feel more, I don't want to say community-minded, but almost,

Laylla: Yeah, though.

Chelle: community-minded.

Laylla: Yes, I totally agree. And even for a hermit introvert like myself, I do love the idea of gathering people that I care for around a meal, around a table. And especially this year, we just hung out with some of our friends, one of whom, oh my god, Jamie, your fucking gardens, woman.

Chelle: Wow, like, I'm taken back, yeah.

Laylla: Right? She grows amazing gardens. We barely touched the surface of that this year, and we're still super proud of what we grew. I was able to bring salsa that I had mostly grown from my garden or gotten from the Amish farm down the street, and that was really cool. That was a point of pride. And we were eating corn and vegetables out of her garden. So, this time of year does bring that out in me, like that whole hearth and home idea. I mean, shit, we baked bread the other day. It was cold and rainy, and we wanted some thing warm. Your love and I made batches of tomato sauce, pasta sauce, to eat that night and then freeze for wintertime.

Chelle: All again locally grown.

Laylla: Like, how much more Harvest Home than that can you get?

Chelle: What stuck with me with what you said was, I was also with you the other night, um, at Jamie's for that fabulous garden extravaganza. And this is the time of year, I think, where we do things like gather our friends and family and and get together with with those that are close to us. I don't know if it's because of the the bounty that is come, or if it's just that settling down towards the end of the season,

Laylla: The end of summer, the start of school, we're cognizant that these beautiful, wonderfully warm, luscious days, what few we've had here in our area, are coming to an end, and that the cold is going to set in.

Chelle: Absolutely, but it just this time of year in particular,

Laylla: We just want to capture it.

Chelle: We do, but it just it really brings that sense of community. It drives it home, I think.

Laylla: Yeah, it's the time it's definitely the time of family reunions and barbecues and, you know, everyone getting together, because we do want to capture that last light, those last little bits. This second harvest is such a good reminder that the end is near. Hearth and home, hearth and home, all that dies shall be reborn. But the emphasis is on dying and cutting it down. And I guess that's what this season, this between the spokes time between Harvest Home and Samhain, this second harvest and the third harvest, I think it's really important to focus on these days to make each one count, to be present, I guess, in these times, in this between the spokes time, because even though we have abundance now, we're celebrating that abundance, and I guess, in theory, the third harvest of Samhain, we're still celebrating that, but that's really the beginning of the of the dark time, well, dark time already started, but we're not going to talk about that. It's really when we perceptually begin the dark time, when we go within, when we go inside. So, I think doing something to help capture these moments, to help be present each day in this between the spokes time is very important.

Chelle: I think there's an aspect to this season that that people forget. This is where a lot of people do a change, and not just a a mental or a spiritual change, but it's also a time of physical transformation. I mean, think of back in the day when this time of year, you were going and getting a new wardrobe because school was starting. You were going to get your haircut because school was starting, and you had to go with fresh cut and fresh clothes. And again, with all those that take the summer off from work, teachers and what not, getting back to work, again, you're getting a fresh hairdo, you know, kind of changing your look up a little bit. So, it's also a time of of a visual transformation for a lot of people. So, not only are they, you know, reaping what they've sown, looking back on on all the things to be grateful for, they're they're physically transforming as we go into this kind of internal part of the year.

Laylla: That's a really good point, because I am not in back to school at all. But, you're right. Not only do I see the changes outside, the the trees that are starting to change color, my garden that's changing, but when the seasons change, my wardrobe has changed. Okay, right at the moment, I'm still wearing a tank top, but I'm getting my hoodies out way more often. I am getting out my fluffy pants way more often.

Chelle: Sadly.

Laylla: So, you're right, things have changed. I might start to change my summer hairstyle, or if I wore more makeup, I would probably change my makeup from summer to to winter makeup. But, you know, you change your decor. September 1st has just happened. People have gone out and cleansed their entryways, they've done their front porch magic, they've probably changed the decor on their front door, at the very least. So, this is a season of changes. You can smell it on the wind, you can feel it in the air, and everyone starts to kind of turn towards pumpkin spice and muffins and baking bread and going within. So, celebrating those things that make you feel cozy, celebrating those things that give you a hearth touchstone while giving you that strength to go forward and reach for your dreams, you're celebrating those things can be very witchy and magical this time of year.

Chelle: Yeah, and I mean, acknowledging the lessons, uh, as well, and and refusing to let them crowd your winter storage in your mind is also a good thing, you know, know what to let go, know what to carry into the dark.

Laylla: All the stories talk about that, gathering what you've sown and harvesting all of that, processing it, and taking care of it, taking stock of it, figuring out what to do with it going forward, metaphorically and physically, we're all kind of going through that right now in one way or another.

Chelle: I read a quote the other day doing some research for something else, and I thought it was very poignant for this episode. "It is not I that am trying to survive. It is we surviving collectively." And again, going back to that community thing, this it just feels like a very community time of year for me, very gathering of the tribe and and rallying.

Laylla: And that is very much needed right now. That's another reason why this is pagan pride time. This is when people have those gatherings, those get-togethers. So, definitely check out Mandragora Magika, go to paganpride.org, find a celebration near you. Maybe if you don't have pagan community, you might be able to find some right in your backyard, you never know. Pagan prides are getting more and more popular, they're they're popping up everywhere. So, that's a great way to sever- celebrate Harvest Home. One of the things that we've talked about and we've seen popping up online, Irene Glass, one of our favorite witches, she has it on her page, is gratitude, gratitude journals, gratitude practices, doing 30-day practices or setting something intentional that you do every day.

Chelle: I kind of like the idea of this, because kind of the thought process behind it is practicing a 30-day gratitude project trains your brain to focus on positive things rather than negative. And especially this time of year, you know, it's getting colder, you know, your bones are aching, and, you know, the kids are off to school and activities and you're busy, and it's just that internal blah that you may be feeling. This is kind of something to retrain you to don't focus on the negative, don't focus on the dark, focus on the things that are good and great and wonderful every day, even if that good and great and wonderful thing is a butterfly landed on your knee while you were outside. But I think that getting your mind to think more positively, it's not only good for your spirituality, but it is excellent for your mental health.

Laylla: And you're 100% right, but the feral gremlin in me has to say, that there are days when that butterfly landing on my knee can fuck right off. And so, that day, the thing that I might be grateful for is that something shitty ended. Like, I might not be grateful for the sunbeams, I might not be grateful that I have a warm meal, I might be grateful that the toxic friendship that I had, I got the balls to end. Or I might be grateful that the boss that was being shitty to me, I decided to send an email to HR. You know, they it's not always going to be those bright and sunshiny things that I'm grateful for, and that's okay.

Chelle: But that's that's you do you. I mean, we all have different things we're grateful for.

Laylla: Yes, and that that's what I'm saying, yeah.

Chelle: Like our snake analogy, you know, you love snakes, and I just want to run for the damn hills. What's what what I find gratitude in isn't always going to be the same that you or the next person is going to find gratitude in.

Laylla: Exactly, and I totally do agree with what you said. Like, I do think the idea of an intentional practice where you choose something where you say, I am grateful for this, is a phenomenal practice for all the reasons you said, and I and I do want us to talk about that, but I also want to acknowledge that trying to be positive about something when you are in a shitty situation sometimes can make you feel worse. So, maybe so focusing that that gratitude on something that you've got, like the, I'm grateful I got up today. And sometimes you might not be, so maybe you can be grateful that you helped somebody out, or maybe you can be grateful that you made someone else smile. So, the small things, like you were saying, the butterfly, small things like that are important, but they don't have to always be picture perfect.

Chelle: Right, and and sometimes just finding the silver lining in things is enough to get you through. So, I I think that what it does is it gives you it gives you a sense of, I don't want to say intention, but there are things you can get online, like uh questions, you know, 30 30-day, if you don't know what to put, 30-day gratitude questions that you can ask yourself each day.

Laylla: Oh, I like that.

Chelle: So that, you know, if you need prompts, because sometimes people need prompts.

Laylla: Some days I need prompts.

Chelle: Yeah, yeah, yeah. Um, so there are things online um that you can find prompts, um but I think if I think for me to do this project, I would find a good mix between daily prompts and things myself, for the exact reason you're saying.

Laylla: The important thing is to spend a little time, even if you use prompts, I think it's important to spend a little time trying to come up with something yourself. Think of something yourself that you're grateful for, or something that you can find a little bit of positivity in. But if you're having a hard time, then turn to the prompts. Give yourself 5 minutes of meditative time, pull a tarot card, and let that help you think of, I'm going to pull this tarot card, and what can I relate this card to in my life that I can be grateful for? And let the tarot help guide you. Or, I forget what it's called. Maybe future Laylla will pop in here with the actual word for it. But take a book off your shelf just randomly and flip open to a page, run your finger down, and just read the first couple sentences and see if that can be applied to your life in some way and journal about that sentence. But there's all sorts of little prompts that you can do to try and get your subconscious, your magical brain, that part of you that is much more knowing than your conscious self and has a lot of answers for you if you can just pay attention. You're trying to tweak the interest of that part of your brain. So any of these little magical divination tools can help you, especially if it's something maybe you don't use all the time. But that can help you kind of get in touch with that and journal about it just for a minute.

Chelle: So I'm going to see if I can do a whole 30 days. This isn't something I'm going to put online, though. I commend Irene for doing that. But I am going to try to do a 30-day gratitude challenge.

Laylla: I am, too, and I'm going to tweak it a little bit. For me, personally, we talked a little bit about reciprocity. And Mabon is an equinox. It is the day when we have equal day and equal night. It's really a tipping point. It's really when we do start to notice that we're in the dark half of the year, because we got to be in the dark half of the year months ago.

Chelle: Didn't feel like it, though.

Laylla: No, but now it's really starting to be noticeable. Now we really start to notice that it gets darker earlier. So this is really a tipping point from the light half to seeing more of the dark half. So part of that balance, part of that reciprocity for me is not just being grateful, but also action. And I think that's just good for me. Again, like you said earlier, this works for me. It might not work for everybody out there. But I can say something that I'm grateful for, like, "I am grateful this year that we went all in on a garden." And then the action part of it would be, "I'm going to go clean out the chicken coop." I'm grateful for this thing or for this idea or for this person, so I am now going to go do this other thing to honor that and to give more energy to that. So for me, I guess it just adds more to the practice. I feel that giving offerings to spirit is energetic, anyways. Like I've talked before about, I don't just offer this cup of tea to my ancestors. I offer the aroma of the tea. I offer the heat from the tea. I offer the taste that I experience of the tea. So I offer more energetic things rather than physical. And so by giving an offering of action, I feel like I'm honoring the spirit of what I'm grateful for. I'm honoring the energy of what I'm grateful for, and I'm giving even more energy to the universe to say, "Hey, give me more of this. Give me more of these things. I will give more back to you," kind of thing, you know? The reciprocity, Mabon, light and dark, balance.

Chelle: A give and take. Yeah, yeah, balance, give and take. I want to kind of to switch to, before we head out and do our fun Mabon stuff, an activity that that I thought was very nice, very interesting.

Laylla: All right, cool. Yeah, I like a good activity.

Chelle: This is called a dual holding ritual. And I love I love using candles.

Laylla: Dual, D-U-E-L?

Chelle: D-U-A-L. Dual.

Laylla: Oh.

Chelle: Dual, like two.

Laylla: Oh, okay. Not as fun, but okay.

Chelle: Oh, no, we're not sword fighting.

Laylla: Oh, that sounds like fun. We can do it like the SCA does, like with the padded. We can do that. Oh, how fun would that be? That would be super fun. If we were going to go duel and LARP, would we be the good guys or the bad guys? Um, because that would be fun.

Chelle: You know, I think it would depend on who we're fighting.

Laylla: Right? I'd want to be an NPC. Back in the day, I used to do some LARPing, and I got to play some pretty cool NPCs. But maybe we could be like sorceresses of the woods, or you look kind of like a tall elven archer.

Chelle: Right. And so if somebody came in, we could decide if they're good or bad, whether we slay them or bring them into our magical forest.

Laylla: So I'm loving this idea of, what did you call it, dual?

Chelle: Dual holding ritual.

Laylla: Dual holding rituals. We could be dueling people, shall, come on. Dueling people in the woods? Actually, that sounds so fun. You'd look great in an elf costume. I would look awesome in a feral witch of the woods costume. I mean, come on. We'd be awesome.

Chelle: Gives me some Hansel and Gretel vibes, not going to lie.

Laylla: You think we'd get lost? Come on, no way.

Chelle: No, it's it's the people.

Laylla: My father would disown me if I ever got lost in the woods.

Chelle: No, the people would get lost and find us.

Laylla: Oh, we're the witches. We're the witches. Yes. Right, right. We're the witches. All right, somehow I feel like we may have gotten off topic here.

Chelle: Okay, circling back. Dual, not a sword fight, holding ritual. So what you do is you just light a candle. It super easy. You don't even need anything but the candle and a lighter or a match. As you light the candle, you're going to sit there for about 10 minutes. And you may end up crying, because this has happened, you know. You stand sit and look at a candle long enough and you are going to end up crying.

Laylla: Fire scrying, I swear, is one of those things that everybody has done at some point in your life. You have stared off into the fire. Yeah. It happens. It's a good one.

Chelle: But what I want you to do is for 10 minutes, I want you to look at your candle, and you're just going to stare into that flame for 10 minutes. And you're going to focus on not only one major frustration or grief that you're experiencing, but also something you are deeply grateful for. And you want to you want to think about both of those things simultaneously while you're looking at that flame for 10 minutes. And essentially what you're doing is you're holding space for the light and the dark and for the balance and the good and the bad, however you want to look at it, the yin and the yang. Um, so you're kind of holding that internally in your mind for like 10 minutes. And if you can do that, it does, I don't want to say make you almost feel more balanced, but it kind of almost resets your brain is I guess that's how I look at it. It's almost like a brain reset where I can't focus too much on the good or the bad. It kind of gets me down that even road.

Laylla: And again, sometimes I feel like people overharp on the gratitude, "Oh, everything's so wonderful. Everything's so light. Everything's so perfect. Gratitude, gratitude, ugh."

Chelle: Not always. Shove your gratitude up your ass sometimes.

Laylla: Right? So holding both ideas appeals much more strongly to me. That that feels more right. Everything's not always light.

Chelle: No.

Laylla: And, you know, and that's supposed to be the lesson that that we're taking in this time of year is that balance, is that yin and yang, light and dark, good and bad, whatever you want to call it.

Chelle: I mean, experience most Thanksgiving dinners in America, right, in the United States. Talk about good and bad, because you hopefully have great food, but somebody's brought something shit. Hopefully you have great relatives you haven't seen a while, but everybody's got that one uncle or maybe more in my case. All right, it happens. So the good and the bad, especially this time of year, it's everywhere.

Chelle: Yeah, and, you know, it's almost like the dark teases you with the children trick-or-treating and giving you candy, and all the candy does is lead you into the depths of despair sometimes.

Laylla: Oh, why you got to ruin my Halloween candy like that? What are you doing?

Chelle: Because everything isn't always light. And we have to honor both the light and the dark. So by doing a dual, not sword fighting, holding ritual, you are holding space for the good and the bad that you're experiencing, because both need acknowledgment.

Laylla: I really like your ritual, but I might be hungry, because as soon as you mentioned Halloween candy and light and dark, all I could think of was chocolate. And I would love to hold space for light chocolate, but I find that dark chocolate is really where my heart lies. I I can't deny that.

Chelle: All right, so on that note, Laylla's going to go to the store and get some candy.

Laylla: Yes. Dark chocolate sea salt caramel, anyone? Oh, lord. Okay. 'Tis the season. I mean, come on. They put Halloween candy out in the stores already. It's not my fault. I'm easily influenced.

Chelle: I've already seen I've already seen Christmas candy. I've already seen Christmas candy.

Laylla: Be gone, Satan.

Chelle: Seriously. And I know that at least our American listeners, if you are in the United States, you know there is a Dollar General on every damn corner of America.

Laylla: Oh, it's an infestation.

Chelle: It is, and they've already got Christmas candy.

Laylla: I knew they were evil. This just confirms it. On that note, guys, like, subscribe, star, share, comment, do all the things. Uh, don't forget we've got our PO box, Back on the Broomstick, PO Box 21, Tioga, PA 16946.

Laylla: Let us know if you prefer Mabon, Harvest Home, or Autumn Equinox as the name for the upcoming holiday on Tuesday, September 22nd at 8:04 p.m. Eastern Time. Everybody grab your brooms and try to hold them and let them stand up on their own at that exact moment. So we will see you next Friday for the next episode. And keep an ear out. We're going to have a bunch of Solariums coming up with a lot of wonderful books, decks, interesting people, and all sorts of things to review. And we've got a funny story that's leading up to yet another giveaway. So stay tuned for that.

Chelle: You know, sometimes there's stuff that you just can't make up, and this is going to be one of them. So stick with us, guys, because we've got a funny one coming for you real soon. Be wise, be wicked.

Laylla: Keep it witchy.
