Chelle: Welcome to Back on the Broomstick, a modern witches spoken word grimoire, where two witchy friends from way back are reconnecting to their pagan roots after a long period of mundanity.

Laylla: We're rewalking the path of the wise and trying out all the latest spells, rituals, and magical theory in today's witchcraft and pagan practices.

Chelle: So grab your wand and your incense,

Laylla: your cauldron and your crystals,

Chelle: and join us as we get back on the broomstick.

Laylla: Hi and welcome to Back on the Broomstick. I'm Laylla, and on this episode we're getting ever closer to the autumn equinox, harvest home, also known as Mabon. It's a greater sabbat on the wheel of the year. On this episode we'll be having a discussion on the darker side of Mabon, what it means to be heading into the dark half of the year, and Samhain.

Chelle: And I'm Chelle, and you know, this is a spectacular time of year for a lot of reasons. And you know, we've talked about a lot of those reasons in the last couple of episodes, but I like how things get crisp because there's a beauty in crispness. There's a beauty in sometimes withering away or shedding. And granted a lot of that comes in bright colorful phases this time of year in the Northeast, but I really like the controlled shedding of this time of year.

Laylla: That's a very good way to put it, very poetic. It's true. This time of year is bittersweet for me. Let's put it that way. I absolutely love summer. I love the growing season. I love spring moving up into summer. I love the heat. I love the lushness and the fullness and all the things I get to do outside in d the summertime. And okay, I love the fall, too. It's amazing. I like the colors and the crispness like you said. And the fall equinox is coming up on Tuesday, September 22nd at 8:05 p.m. Eastern Daylight Time. And that is literally the tipping point for me into what feels like the dark half of the year. I know we're already in it, but we were just remarking the other night, Chelle, that it's darker faster.

Chelle: I'm not down with this like 8:00 darkness stuff, and I know it's only getting worse.

Laylla: Right? So there's things that I love about autumn and fall, and there's things that you know, I'm not exactly 100% looking forward to. So this episode we decided to kind of balance our gratitude episode and talk about some of the things that this season is about that aren't as fun. The letting go part, the dark part, the shedding part. Just like trees kind of shed their leaves, sometimes it's good and necessary to shed things in our lives, too. So we're going to have a little bit of a discussion about the dark part of the year.

Chelle: We sometimes think like squirrels, and we think that we need to just like But you know, we feel like we need to like stock up, whether that be food supplies, magical items, emotions. And sometimes there are good things you need to stock up, especially emotionally, but other times you just you need a fresh start. And you know, we've talked around those star about the spring cleaning thing. That is the same thing this time of year. It's like a fall cleaning, you know. You got to clean out your mind and and your spirit of all that shit you don't want to take into winter with you because you only got so much winter storage in your heart and mind, man.

Laylla: This time of year, I I kind of look at it as almost like a slightly different version of spring cleaning cuz in the spring I feel like I'm opening things up and freshening them up and and trying to move them and get them unstagnant. Is that a word? Un and It guess so. And in the fall I feel more like

Chelle: It is now.

Laylla: I'm putting things to bed. Literally in my garden I am pulling up things that are done, that are past their prime, that are no longer serve me, that no longer serve themselves. I'm giving them to the compost. I'm turning the beds and getting them ready for slumber for the winter. And I guess it's also time to do that for myself now, too. There's some things in my life that no longer serve me or are ready to put to bed. So it's a it's a different kind of cleaning, I think. It's a little bit more of a pruning and a putting to bed, whereas like in the spring it's opening up and freshening. Persephone is getting ready to go down, and so I guess she's packing up and getting ready to go away. And I'm doing kind of the same thing, too, I guess.

Chelle: I was just going to say almost like you're packing up for a trip, you know. You got to pack all the good stuff and leave all the shit behind. That's kind of the theme of the season, you know. You pack up all the good stuff and leave all the shit behind.

Laylla: Yeah. All right. I'm going to run with your metaphor because that's true, too. When I go away and I close up my house, I like to make sure that it's going to be nicer when I come back, you know, cuz it's going to be closed. It's going to be dark. It's going to be shut and just dormant like we are in the wintertime. So I like to make sure that things are fresher, that things are put away, that anything that's stagnant or old or done gets taken care of, gets taken out so it's not going to draw bugs or critters or smell bad when I get back, you know. Take care of things for that dormant time.

Chelle: And you know, that that's another good metaphor, you know. Just like you wouldn't leave rotten food around all winter, you're not going to want to leave some of your rotten habits or your your your rotten traits or what have you around for the winter because they're just going to rot in your soul and mind.

Laylla: Sure. You know, and that's And sometimes we don't like you're taking up space thing, like we don't have enough space in storage. And God, no, I don't have enough space in storage.

Chelle: Physically or mentally.

Laylla: Right. Seriously. But But you know, you don't you don't have you don't have room for everything. And and that doesn't mean that some of these things I don't love. Like I was just recently going through Halloween decorations, and I freaking love all of them. They all have stories and meaning, but

Chelle: some are past their prime.

Laylla: Yeah. Some are downright broken and dangerous and don't work anymore. Some are just not my style anymore, and that's okay, too, you know. And we're talking a lot about metaphorical things, but these are the ideas in the real world that you can then take into your magical brain and into your brain and perform these same types of things. You can do this with with friendships, with work relationships, with projects. Sometimes you have to let go of projects, and I am the worst person at that. I like to hold on to a project long after I should have let it go cuz it no longer working. So sometimes even things we love we have to kind of let go of.

Chelle: Just like with Persephone, Persephone did not loathe going to the underworld.

Laylla: Oh, no. Okay. Disclaimer.

Chelle: I was just going to say depending on the story.

Laylla: Exactly. Okay, I'm less stubborn now. I'm going to say I am one of those people that when I learned this story it was the rape of Persephone and it's not a good story. So I I the newer the newer spin on it is that she was taken away by some by Hades that she loved and it is it's a love story. It's a very strong and powerful love story. And I guess I can hold space for both of those in my brain, but I understand that there are two different sides to this story and and they both make sense and they they both have very good reasons for being true, I guess. Anyway, keep going.

Chelle: Well, what I was going to say is Okay, maybe it's more like she understands the cycle and she understands that it's time for her to take part in this part of the cycle, which means going within, going to the underworld, going in and kind of quote unquote doing her time down there. And I do get both stories, and I was not trying to negate that at all.

Laylla: No, I again, both stories are valid. The both interpretations are absolutely completely valid.

Chelle: But sometimes we look forward to going within. Sometimes we look forward to digging deep and hunkering down and you know, hibernating like animals. You know, there are people out there. I kind of like to be out and about in in the in the natural world, but there are folks that just love more than anything to spend the winter completely locked in and and and I get that and I and I respect that. So for some people this shedding and this going within and this seeing the shadow parts in the world is like their jam.

Laylla: I'm going to call out one of our community members, Monica, whom we both very much adore.

Chelle: Love Monica.

Laylla: Monica is probably one of the bubbliest, brightest, most beautiful people inside and out that I know. Monica also dresses in all black, has black hair, and is goth as goth could be. And Monica also loves wintertime and loves autumn and loves the colder weather, does not love the sun. Heat is not her jam. It is not her thing. Too bright.

Chelle: No. My beautiful bubbly dark soul.

Laylla: That's right. I really want her to do my makeup. I am like a total terrible person with makeup. I cannot do it. And she is fantastic. Anyway, I'm getting sidetracked here, Shell.

Chelle: Different episode, different episode.

Laylla: Glamour magic, Monica, we need you. Anyway, so um where were we? Goth, Monica, wonderful dark time of year. Yes, Monica loves this time of year.

Chelle: Some folks really draw from that that inward time.

Laylla: This is when they shine, when they come out of their shell, when they feel more comfortable. And that's great. And and it's really going to depend on who you are. I very much try to look at the coziness. I try to look forward to the coziness of it. I also try to look forward to the kind of traveling of it because my husband and I traveling weirdos. Wintertime is a good time to go do some traveling cuz things are quieter at home. We don't have as much responsibilities here. So you can do that a little bit. There's a lot to look forward to in each season, no matter what you like about it or don't like about it and no matter where you're at in your life. That kind of reminds me a little bit of a a listener wrote in one of our social media posts recently. We were talking about a bunch of weeds and things that we had harvested here at the homestead and asked our listeners what they had been harvesting for this Mabon season. And one listener said, I live in Reno and it's hot and it's terrible. And I'm not growing shit other than a scorched backyard basically. Okay, they didn't say that. I swear. I am sorry. But basically that was that was just a bit. I felt terrible for this person. And it's difficult sometimes to see some of these what is it? Western European wheel of the year ideals, I guess. You're supposed to be harvesting all your abundance, and maybe you live in the freaking high desert of California and you don't have that same kind of abundance.

Chelle: Right, right.

Laylla: It can be difficult sometimes, I guess that aspect of this time of year, too, when things are so different across the United States.

Chelle: And it you know, I guess we take that for granted coming from a very agricultural rich region. The only thing that's got more agriculture than the Northeast is the Midwest, for God's sake. So I I think that sometimes you got to take what you've got in your vicinity, in your area. You know, we've talked about magic of place in the past. Same thing. Even if it's you go for a half hour drive somewhere, you know, try to find the magic of your place even if you don't have things to harvest or aren't in a growing area or if you're are in our Southern Hemisphere friend group, you know, maybe you are getting ready to to start those seed plantings and and and start sowing things into the ground. But no matter where you are just take in your magic of place.

Laylla: I guess that's a a really good point because when I did live in Southern California in the high desert there was a little bit of a struggle for me because I'm used to the forests of the Finger Lakes and the richness of the growing area here.

Chelle: I bet I bet you they didn't have leave the leaves changing out there, did they?

Laylla: Not exactly, no. No.

Chelle: That's heartbreaking.

Laylla: Well, it wasn't first until I did pay attention to the land and I I fell in love with the rhythm and the different seasons there. And so Mabon does not look like a full basket of fruits and vegetables so much in Southern California. But there are still harvests. You are still growing. My outdoor garden, my plants outside were absolutely amazing in California. I had so many different things and I took great pleasure in tending that. I also very much enjoyed this time of year. The cooler days, it does start to get a little bit cooler and the nighttime is especially cooler. I liked noticing the changes in temperature in light and in what is and isn't growing going on in my area. So yeah, it's going to look different. Your harvest is going to be different. But it 's all metaphors anyway. So you can find how it fits in your place and that that's part of the beauty of it and part of the magic of it right there. Grab onto your broomstick, witches, back after these messages.

Chelle: Witches, guess what? We are coming to Salem. Laylla, tell them why we're coming.

Laylla: We have been invited by our friends at Pentagram to come down and read tarot. So not only are we going to be visiting our favorite haunts in Salem, we're going to be slayin cards at one of our favorite shops.

Chelle: So if you happen to be in Salem October 5th, 6th, and 7th, stop on down to our absolute favorite shop, Pentagram shop. We will be there doing tarot. Come see us. Slots are going fast. So if you want to see us, stop in, say hi, get a selfie, we would love that. And if you'd like your cards read by Shell or by Laylla, just give them a call, get an appointment, and we look forward to seeing you in Salem, Massachusetts.

Laylla: And to get that appointment booked, you want to give them a shout out at 978-224-2925. Give Pentagram a call, tell them you want to hook up with Laylla and Shell.

Chelle: So check us out in Salem if you want to have a witchy good time.

Laylla: And we will be there with our witchy hats.

Chelle: I have a few of those. I wasn't planning on wearing a hat, but I guess I I will now.

Laylla: Yeah, your your harvest doesn't need to be squash and corn and tomatoes and cucumbers. Your harvest could be love and joy and happiness and fruitfulness in your life. You know, sometimes as a non-cooker I can say sometimes the greatest bounties come from Llewellyn's.

Chelle: Or right now the Amish farm stand down the road.

Laylla: Or yep yep yep yep.

Chelle: Whatever didn't work in my garden we can pick up there.

Laylla: Exactly. That's a good point, too. It's really metaphorically harvest home, this autumn equinox time is about looking at what worked. The first harvest, we're excited. It's the abundance. Yay, we've got first fruits, everything's growing. Woohoo.

Chelle: Oh my God, I actually grew something.

Laylla: Right? This tomato tastes like a tomato. Holy shit, yay. And by Mabon I'm like, what do I do with all these tomatoes? I have more basil. Why are there more peppers growing? And there's no way that cucumber is going to get big enough in time to be edible by the first frost. So there's a lot going on and not all of it is fun and most of it has to do with what do I do with this? What do I do with it now? This is what I grew. What do I do with it now? So apply that to your life. You have made these changes. You made these promises to yourself, these resolutions, sorry Chelle, back in January. And you've you've tended them through this cycle of the year, this wheel of the year. You've seen how it's grown. You've you've reaped the abundance. Now what do you do with that abundance or failure? Cuz some of my crops didn't work in my garden and in my life. Some of the projects that we've done for the podcast didn't work. We've kind of had to let some things go. Some things we didn't have time for. Some things went gangbusters we didn't expect.

Chelle: But you know, you have to you have to take stock of all of the things that you were able to sow through throughout the beginning of this year and look at what you're able to reap from that. Yeah, you can't reap everything. Whatever. happens kind of like the watermelon that your freaking chickens ate.

Laylla: Oh, thanks for bringing that up, Shell.

Chelle: I wanted to eat the watermelon. Man, I hid that sucker for so long, too.

Laylla: Yeah, you tried. You tried. But you know, I I think it's it's whether you're picking out of a garden or getting your eggs out of the coop or just saying I did a good job this year. I made it this far. Sometimes that's that's all you need is to know, you know what? I've I've made it through this dumpster fire through September. Let's give it another go and see if I can get through this dumpster fire till spring.

Chelle: Yeah, exactly. And to bring it back to the garden metaphor, we are literally writing it okay, writing in a garden journal, writing about what worked. What did we plant that we loved? What did we plant that failed? What did we plant that we actually didn't really like having that much of radishes is probably a

Laylla: Do not do not tell people to start a garden journal. Come on. Come on.

Chelle: Well, they should have an everything journal. I mean, I have like four over here. I mean, literally you should have like everything journals. I Anyway, garden journals are important because you need to know what worked, what didn't work, what is worth saving, and what are we putting to bed and why? What are we going to plant next year? We're all about cleaning and seed planting and all that shit earlier in the year. Right now we're about preserving and and reflecting. What worked? What didn't work? What are we going to put to bed? And what are we going to carry with us through wintertime, through this dark time of the year, the cold?

Laylla: And you know, it is it it is the season for foraging, too. And you know, we've we've done a lot of foraging in the last week or so. And one thing it it this was an actual thing, but I got a metaphorical meaning out of it. You know how I am. I found a couple of weeds this week that actually proved to be very good for what I was looking for and what my intentions were. And I think the lesson in that to me was sometimes even the weeds that you didn't plant, that you didn't want to grow, that you've tried to kill all summer long, and they persevered and damn it, they're 3 ft tall in the yard. Sometimes you need those weeds. And we forget that we need the weeds sometimes.

Chelle: Yeah. Sometimes they're lessons. Sometimes they're beneficial. Sometimes the thing that we didn't want to pop up turns out to be the exact thing we needed, just like you said with the weeds that you found.

Laylla: Yep. Exactly. Exactly.

Chelle: There's something about this time of year that lends itself to reflection, and I think that's kind of why we've chosen to go a little a little deep, a little metaphorical, I guess, with this episode because you know, the summer is ending and it's obvious. The trees are starting to turn. The nights are colder. The wind is starting to pick up. There are herbs drying on my porch. And there's there's a shift in the matrix, too, because you know, you and I are are well past this point. We have older children, but school went back in the Northeast this week. That's that's like a a a shift in the timeline. You know, when school goes back it's almost like reality is different. I don't know why I have felt that since I was a child, but you know, we always say, oh, summer goes until X date or you know, fall doesn't start until X date. I've always felt that shift right now, and I think it's because that that going back to school vibe changes everything. It makes things more serious. It makes things I don't want to say more intense, but but more serious, I guess, is probably the best word. We're We've been kind of living a little footloose and fancy free in this last couple notches in the wheel. But now that we're getting to September, October, November, it's kind of that buckle down time and school is a good school starting is almost like a little indicator of that mindset.

Laylla: You know, it was a few weeks ago we were camping and that's when we first started to notice the signs of fall. I think it was the same day. We were both like, I think today is the first day of fall.

Chelle: The wind smelled different. I get picked on when I say that. Our listeners pick on me when I say I smell the change of the season. Someone someone said, that's a skunk, Laylla.

Laylla: It wasn't.

Chelle: But anyway, it was not. But But I you know, I appreciate the sentiment. But yeah, the I think it was the same day just a couple weeks ago that you and I were both like, today is the first day of fall. We feel it. But it wasn't really hitting home until now because we were still in the thick of the end of summer. Things are still abundant and beautiful and nice and and it wasn't until just now that the winds are really colder, the rain is a lot harder, and back to school season. Something about that shift in everybody's attitude makes things a lot more reflective. And And I guess, too, we all start looking towards Samhain.

Laylla: Dun dun dun.

Chelle: That third harvest. And I was reminded by a listener that we were talking a little bit last episode about how it feels like Mabon's the last harvest because I don't see any fruits and vegetables at Samhain. And I guess we were just kind of blissfully overlooking the fact that the third harvest isn't a harvest of fruits and grains. The third harvest is the harvest of the cattle. It's the harvest of the sheep and the chickens. It's the harvest of the meat. And so that's an entirely different harvest and a different type of attitude.

Laylla: A different vibe for sure, Lord.

Chelle: Exactly. So we start to go from this idea of abundance and and cutting down the grains and metaphorically cutting down the god to in some cases, granted not all of us are carnivores and but the harvest of the animals begins around that time, too, traditionally. And so the idea again is the vibe changes. Mabon is that big shift, the the the light and dark. It's that tipping point into the dark and you really start to feel it running up to these days and weeks before Mabon.

Laylla: Oh, just makes me want to go pick apples.

Chelle: Yes, indeed. Now, okay. So other than apple picking and farmers markets and running around the land with beautiful baskets, getting our cottagecore witch on, what are some of the things that we can do this time of year to express gratitude for this harvest, express gratitude for what we are putting away, what we are choosing to cut down and maybe not replant or choosing to lay by for the winter? Do you have any fall practices you really like to do? You know, one thing I've always really liked is and and it's it's trivial, I guess, but there's something to be said with carving pumpkins. And I know people kind of put that right in a Samhain bucket, but it's not necessarily. And I think some of the the metaphors I like with that is you know, when you're carving a pumpkin with you know, with yourself or with your kids you start by scooping out the guts of it. And that's kind of similar to that clearing away. You know, we've got to clear away. We've got to clean out the cobwebs before we hunker down for the winter. Um but then after it's all cleared out, you got your cute little face in it and you put your little tea light or whatever inside. When I see a glowing pumpkin face, it reminds me that yeah, the dark time is here and yeah, the dark time is coming, but there's always going to be that light at the end of the tunnel. Spring is always going to come, you know. With fall comes winter. With winter comes spring. With spring comes summer. So it it it's a reminder of that endless cycle that even though we're in the dark there's still peaks and pokes of light that can guide us through until we get to the other side.

Laylla: One of the things that I like to do this time of year is kind of honor that ending of the sun. And so doing something at dusk, if you're able to, when the sun starts to change. And that's going to change every night a little bit.

Chelle: Like at 2:00 in the afternoon it feels like.

Laylla: Almost, right? Don't don't curse us. It'll happen soon enough, Shell.

Chelle: Soon enough. Right?

Laylla: But But at dusk, right around dusk, take a few minutes, you know, either outside if you can or by a window and maybe have your your tarot cards there or your runes or or your journal, whatever you're doing for the evening, or just take a moment and just kind of notice that and just be in that moment. Honor the sun as it's setting, as it's going towards nighttime, and set the idea of what am I setting down tonight? What can I lay to rest tonight and let go? And what might need a little care when the sun rises again tomorrow? Or you don't have to get that deep. You could just honor the sun, pull a card and honor the sun and honor something that needs to be laid to rest in your life. And just let that card guide you on that. But just take a moment at dusk at that change, that balance point, that tipping point, and just thank the sun. Name something you're grateful for and something you're letting go. But kind of walk that moment between the light and dark.

Chelle: So all this talk about tarot has made me want to grab a deck and pull a card.

Laylla: I'm really glad you said that because I happen to have been playing with a deck myself this entire episode. And mine is not a tarot deck. It's an oracle deck, but I have a confession.

Chelle: Uh-oh, what?

Laylla: This deck is called The Oracle of Forgotten Witches and it's by oh boy.

Chelle: I cannot help you with pronunciation.

Laylla: Future Laylla help. Future Laylla here. I believe the pronunciation for the artist and the author of this deck after much searching on the internet is Paula's Tall Tree and Lilla Bullets. Future Laylla out. Uh so beautiful deck. This is an oracle deck and when I first saw it I thought it was a tarot deck and I still treat it like a tarot deck. I know dang well it's an oracle deck, but it feels and it reads like tarot and I freaking love it.

Chelle: Well I know And the box has 60 cards and usually oracle decks have less than 60 cards, so that kind of gives it that tarot feel too.

Laylla: The artwork is phenomenal. I we're going to do a full review on this deck at some point in the future, but I I've been playing with this deck because I really feel like I want to draw a card from this as well for this episode, for this Mabon season for our listeners. So you go ahead and draw yours and then I'm going to draw one from this absolutely fabulous deck.

Chelle: Okay, so I happened to grab the round Mother Piece deck. Uh this is an oldie but a goodie in my collection. I haven't pulled a card from this in a hundred years. So I was shuffling this bad boy and what I came up with and I'm just pulling one card. I ain't doing like a whole thing here. I came up with the Four of Pentacles. In this deck it is the Four of Disks, uh but the Four of Pentacles. And I love these cards. Got to get used to shuffling them cuz they're round, but I love these cards. Visually on this card I've got a woman with a fire, uh four disks on the wall and she's shutting her door like she's she's happy. She's satisfied. She's got what she needs and maybe that's a good place for us to be right now, happy and satisfied because we have what we need.

Laylla: I really wish that for this season to be honest. That is a beautiful balancing point to be on, happy and satisfied because we have what we need. That where I would love to be.

Chelle: What'd you get?

Laylla: I was only going to draw one and I ended up drawing two and the second one kind of freaked me out, so you're going to need to help me out here.

Chelle: Oh Lord, this deck is scary.

Laylla: The first card that I drew was Baba Yaga's Hut and I feel like that's this season. So Baba Yaga's Hut is unpredictability and it's surprise and the unexpected. So I feel like this is telling us that sometimes the path is not clear and we need to be prepared for surprise, be ready for the unexpected. And

Chelle: Absolutely.

Laylla: be prepared for what comes. Now because it was Baba Yaga's Hut and because I know that you have to kind of be prepared, I felt like something was coming. I felt like she was a uh harbinger. So I kind of felt like all right, Baba Yaga's telling me pull another card.

Chelle: What'd you get?

Laylla: I said I was playing with this deck the whole time we were recording this episode.

Chelle: Did you get Hecate?

Laylla: Yes, I did. But worse, it's worse. Hold on. While we were going over this episode, one of the things I did was put all the cards right side up. We recently had a meeting of some people and uh I let everybody pick a card and did readings for everyone and the cards had gotten all jumbled and reversed. And one of the things I like to do before I do a fresh reading is to straighten the wall out. So I did so. I straightened them all out. When I cut the deck after Baba Yaga told me to and I cut to Hecate, she's the only one that was reversed in the entire deck.

Chelle: Really?

Laylla: Really.

Chelle: And you don't shuffle. I shuffle reversals. You do not.

Laylla: No, the way I shuffle if I'm shuffling there are no reversals. It's they'll stay the same orientation. And if if I had flipped it half the cards would be flipped. One card, one card, just the and just the one I cut straight to. Like I wasn't looking for a reversal and picked that one. I cut the deck and I'm like oh, it's Hecate and she's the only one that was reversed. All right, so what does that mean, Hecate lady?

Chelle: So So what was the first card again? Baba Yaga's Hut?

Laylla: Baba Yaga's Hut. And she's the one that told me to pick another card.

Chelle: Oh Lord.

Laylla: So I just pulled another card and I got the In this deck it's called The Daughter of Cups. So that is going to be the Princess of Cups. I feel like that's Persephone. All right, here's what I'm feeling. Hecate is the guide. Hecate Baba Yaga says there's a path that's unpredictable and the things are going to be unpredictable and Hecate is saying you need a guide, you need a protector, you need the Goddess of Witches at your side. Persephone is saying this is a good journey to the underworld and Hecate is my guide. We're on a trip together. Baba Yaga, Hecate and Persephone on a journey to the underworld. So that's the message for people out there is buckle up bitches basically.

Chelle: It's going to be a fun fall. Woohoo.

Laylla: It's going to be a very fun fall and yeah. So okay, yeah. So Hecate, Persephone and Baba Yaga I think have lots of messages for us. So if any of you out there feel like any of these deities are calling to you or you know why they're prevalent this season, why don't you send us an email? No, I'm just kidding. Send us an email back on the broomstick at gmail.com and let us know how you feel about these cards and about this idea for the upcoming Mabon season.

Chelle: Ooh, now all I can think about is Hecate and her keys. All right, here we go.

Laylla: Baba Yaga has been quite the interesting I I was going to say creature. I don't know if she'd appreciate that. Quite the interesting force, I suppose, lately. I have to do a little more research on her. She's fascinating. But all right, so we're going to run off and eat apples and read about dark deities and hopefully you all are having a wonderful entrance into your fall season. Get out there and hopefully you can get to some farmers' markets and enjoy the season without too much heat. Until then, be wise, be wicked.

Chelle: And be safe and keep it witchy.
