Laylla: Hey witches, this episode is sponsored by The Witches Moon. Our favorite supplier of witchy goods, oils, incense, herbs, tools, jewelry. These guys have the most unique, locally crafted, hand-crafted, beautiful stuff. I checked out The Witches Moon website and not only do they have all those amazing things, they have some of the coolest, most unusual, most beautiful tarot decks I have ever seen. So if you want to find some tarot decks that would make even Chelle go gaga, check out The Witches Moon. And again, thank you to The Witches Moon for sponsoring this episode of Back on the Broomstick.

Welcome to Back on the Broomstick, a modern witches' spoken word grimoire, where two witchy friends from way back are reconnecting to their pagan roots after a long period of mundanity. We're rewalking the path of the wise and trying out all the latest spells, rituals, and magical theory in today's witchcraft and pagan practices. So grab your wand and your incense, your cauldron and your crystals, and join us as we get back on the broomstick.

Hi, and welcome to Back on the Broomstick. I'm Laylla, and we're welcoming the season of the witch. Fall is here, whether it looks like it or not, and our thoughts turn to falling leaves, carving pumpkins, and ghost stories. For this episode, we have four spooky cemetery tales filled with curses, cages, shocking events, and maybe a witchy twist.

Chelle: And I'm Chelle, and the other thing that this time of year sparks for me in my brain is pagan pride. 'Tis the season for pagan pride. I feel like every pagan pride should have like hot apple cider, fried dough with powdered sugar on top.

Laylla: I definitely look forward to this time of year for pagan pride events, and we are very lucky that in New York State, in our area, even in Pennsylvania, there are quite a few pagan pride events starting in August, going through September. And hopefully, if you guys out there take a look at your area, if you're in the United States and around the world, I know there are pagan pride events in other places as well, take a look and see if there's one near you. We travel about 2 hours to go to the Central New York Pagan Pride Day up near Syracuse, New York, mostly because we've been going to that one for several years since I lived up near that area. There's familiar faces there. We love it. We keep going back every year. And this year, not only are we having a community tent, a community tent for our community, Crystal City Circle, we're also giving workshops together this year, which I think is going to be a lot of fun. And what else are we doing, Chelle?

Chelle: So, this was an interesting turn of events. We are also co-facilitating the main ritual. We have come up with a delightful ritual experience for everybody for Saturday afternoon. So if you are anywhere in New York State, I implore you, drive to Syracuse area and come to CNY PPD.

Laylla: There are quite a few workshops. There's always vendors of every type there. There's food. There's events going on all day long. And it's just such a great time. No matter what pagan pride you get to, check them out. Go to the website, paganpride.org, I believe it is. Future Laylla will jump in if that's not it. But, you know, check Mandragora Magika, check Facebook, check social media, and see if there's one near you, because there's so much to do. And last year at our pagan pride, we've probably talked about this repeatedly, but Crystal City Circle was introduced to people that became part of our community all the way up in Syracuse, which is 2 hours roughly away from Corning, New York. And because people come from all over, we were able to meet local people and make connections. We were able to help people connect with groups in Western New York and with the Northern Tier Pagan. So it's nice to have events like this where people can connect and find community.

Chelle: I think that is one of, you know, you talked about the vendors and the workshops and the ritual, and all of that stuff is fabulous, do not get me wrong, but I think one thing I enjoy most from pagan pride days is that sense of bringing community together, because, you know, we're 2 hours away from the event we're going to. It's not like we were going to ever be a part of a tight-knit group in that area because it was too far away. But that is an opportunity to meet like-minded folks that may be in your area, that may have also traveled from afar. So when you ask yourself, why would I go to a pagan pride day, to find community is another top-notch answer.

Laylla: Absolutely, the biggest reason. Whether you go to the workshops or the rituals or even if you don't buy anything, if you just walk around, you're going to meet people of all types, and everyone is so friendly and so welcoming at these events. You're bound to find somebody that you connect with, or if you just ask, I bet you'll find somebody from your area that you can connect with. It's a great place to find community. Now, one of the reasons we're excited is we're doing two workshops, not just the main ritual, which, how cool is that?

Chelle: That is actually super cool. But our workshops are going to be super-duper cool.

Laylla: We are reprising our labyrinth workshop that we did last year, and this time we're doing it together. We're going to teach people how to draw a labyrinth, and then we're going to show people how to draw a big labyrinth on the ground that we can walk. And it's going to be a lot of fun. I love this workshop. I've given it several times. You helped me recently at Brushwood with it.

Chelle: Yep.

Laylla: Now we've expanded it for Pagan Pride Day, and it's just very satisfying being able to teach people the key to drawing a labyrinth. It's just a lot of fun.

Chelle: And our our second workshop, you know, it wouldn't be us doing workshops without a tarot workshop. So we will also be presenting a workshop on tarot spread creation. And, you know, I I love this particular topic, and we did, again, this was done at Brushwood, and I loved doing this with the Brushwood folks because people were in this mindset that, I can't create a tarot spread, I have to do a tarot spread that I found in a book. And I was able to kind of open it up and and show them that absolutely, yes, you can, and even put them all on the spot at the end and kind of push their hand to make their own spreads, and they were all delighted. And again, just like with the labyrinth workshop, we have expanded that to include both of us. So instead of us doing things kind of mono-y-mono, we're doing it together, and it's going to be a blast.

Laylla: It is so much fun. Doing that tarot spreads workshop with you at Brushwood was just so much fun because it's great to see your perspective and my perspective on how to create these spreads. And then it's even more fun to see all the perspectives of the people in the workshop because, just like you said, they were all like, oh, I don't know how to make a tarot spread, but they all do it. They don't realize they're already doing it.

Chelle: They all are really doing it. Yeah.

Laylla: And every single spread that came up was fantastic. And a couple we even asked to get permission to use ourselves because these people come up with some amazing spreads. So I'm excited to see what people at Pagan Pride come up with.

Chelle: It'll be a fun day. So, again, if you're in the area, stop by. It'll be at the Long Branch State Park in Liverpool, New York.

Laylla: Yeah. Okay. So that's the fun part of Pagan Pride Day, Chelle. But the not-so-fun part is the many disruptions that have been popping up, in particular, one in Lehigh Valley, Pennsylvania, at a Pagan Pride event that they had recently.

Chelle: If you didn't hear my sigh, it was totally there. I mean,

Laylla: Yeah, did you hear my eye roll?

Chelle: It is the year 2026. What else can I say? Like, like, I don't even have words. Can't you just live and let live? Like, why are we at this point still? And it's heartbreaking. It's enraging. It's sadness. And it's just downright dangerous.

Laylla: I mean, we just recently interviewed Beck talking about being persecuted for reading tarot. And now they're embroiled in a freaking fight for divination rights in Pennsylvania against the state of Pennsylvania. And now we're hearing about people that are disrupting pagan pride events, and it's not just happening on the East Coast of the United States. It's it's popping up all over the country. And I think it's happening more and more now because things are a little crazy.

Chelle: And it's okay to be sad and enraged and angry, but then then you ask yourself, well, what can I do? What can I do to protect myself? What can I do to to protect my my friends and family, my my kinfolk? And, you know, this is just kind of a sad place for us all to be right now. It's it's a collective sigh, a collective eye roll.

Laylla: And it's more than that. It's a I'm concerned. I'm a little concerned. And and maybe that's premeditated. You know, this none of this has been horrible. Like, no one's gotten hurt. Most of this is just young people being confrontational.

Chelle: But isn't that how it always starts? That's what I'm worried about. That's what I'm worried about is this is how it always starts.

Laylla: Same. So I don't think I'm being too overreactive when I tell people just, you know, go to these and be a be a little careful. I can't remember any one of these pagan prides for Central New York that we've gone to, Chelle, that we've gone to in the last couple of years where there hasn't been a Christian mild protest. Basically, they usually just walk through carrying some signs and, you know, sometimes they might be a little louder than others, but mostly they just kind of walk around and are mildly annoying.

Chelle: And the same, you know, up in Salem, you know, Haunted Happenings is literally like the whole month of October. And during that whole month of October, there's always a gentleman that stands on the corner near the Bewitched statue with his speaker and his bullhorn and his Bible, and he is speaking his truth in his bullhorn out into the middle of the street in an intersection. But, you know, he isn't bothering anybody per se other than the bullhorn. Like, dude, can't you just talk? If you're going to say it, just say it. Do you need the bullhorn and the speaker? But he's there every year like clockwork, but he doesn't harass people. And I think it's always not what you do, it's how you do it. You know, everybody has the right to speak their truth, and that's fine. But why the hell do you got to disrupt other people and just kind of be a dick? Don't be a dick.

Laylla: Yeah, there's no reason for that. That's absolutely ridiculous. So whatever. And, you know, honestly, I think we're more accepting of stuff like that than most other places would be. I just described a group of people that will come through these events regularly, sometimes with a bullhorn, causing trouble or or being loud and trying to speak their truth, and we pretty much just let it happen. Can you imagine if a group of pagans went to say one of these Baptist revival events and walked through with a bullhorn talking about the goddess? I don't think they'd appreciate that. I think we would be treated much more harshly. So,

Chelle: I feel like we would. Yeah. But, you know, I will say I will say this that there was an event at a public ritual last year in Salem, and what happened this past weekend at a Pennsylvania Pagan Pride Day, what I will say is the security and police response, you know, it's it's appreciated. Um, I know that the folks in Salem think that more could have been done. The folks in Pennsylvania were very satisfied with the police response. And I think that we need to be appreciative when, you know, we get that backup from from our government, from our police. Absolutely. Everybody deserves to be safe, damn it.

Laylla: All right. So basically, we're just saying keep your head on a swivel. Maybe bring a few extra protection crystals with you.

Chelle: How many can you fit in your bra?

Laylla: A few. Didn't we have a listener who said that they make a bra pocket? I know you're out there. I remember you. I know you're out there. Message us because that's kind of a fun idea. A secret witchy pocket that you put in your bra so you can carry all your protection crystals in it.

Chelle: That actually is hysterical.

Laylla: Although we did kind of joke just recently, we posted a very large rock that my husband picked up in Lake Ontario when we lived at Rochester. And I used it recently in a hearth and home spell, kind of bespelled it to be like a cornerstone of the house, just to remind me of our blessings and and the things that make our house a home. And it's a very large rock, and we were kind of joking. I was like, so what crystal am I using for protection? And I like pick up that Lake Ontario rock. It's like 3 lb or 5 lb of like heavy gray rock. Yeah.

Chelle: I wouldn't put that in your bra, just No.

Laylla: Sadly, that won't fit in my bra. It really won't even fit in a purse or a backpack. It needs its own bag. It needs like its own special bag that I can like swing around, like one of those like old weapons, you know, that have the stone on the end. My mom could crochet me one of those. I know she could.

Chelle: Your mom could definitely crochet you one of those.

Laylla: Absolutely. Mom. Hail the rock from Lake Ontario.

Chelle: That's right, or else.

Laylla: Now, interestingly enough, I have a a story here. It's not really a story. It's more of a factoid. How about that for you, Chelle? And and this is because we're we're talking about a lot of weird things happening in Pennsylvania, Beck with the whole divination thing going on. Power to you, Beck. Strength, man. Keep fighting the good fight. Hate it. But I was looking up some of this information, and you mentioned earlier that one of our ghost stories that are coming up is about a witch from Salem during the Salem witch trials. So I kind of looked up some information on people who have passed away from witch trials, and there was indeed a witch trial in Pennsylvania before the infamous Salem witch trials. 8 years before the witch trials in Pennsylvania, 1684 in Philadelphia was the trial of Margaret Mattson. Now, Margaret Mattson was a Swedish settler, and her neighbor, Yethro Hendrickson, these two women were both accused of witchcraft. Their neighbors said that the women were using black magic to bewitch cattle and livestock so that they wouldn't give milk or that they'd die giving birth. They also said that Mattson would appear to people as a ghost. Now, at this time, the trial in Philadelphia was presided over the founder of the colony, who happened to be William Penn. So William Penn himself, the William Penn. How do you think this trial ended?

Chelle: Probably they were accused of witchcraft and either hung or dunked, because I know that some of the dunking was happening. Which way was it? Burned? Were they burned?

Laylla: Very close. You're very close.

Chelle: You're close.

Laylla: They were actually accused of witchcraft, and the jury found them guilty of having the common fame of a witch, but not guilty of practicing witchcraft as they were outlined in the charges.

Chelle: Really?

Laylla: Yeah. They were only found not guilty, I think, by technicality because Pennsylvania didn't have any capital laws against witchcraft at the time, so she wasn't executed. Basically, both women were given to their husbands. They had to pay a bond of £50, which was probably a lot of money at the time. Oh, yeah. And their husbands had to promise that they would behave for 6 months.

Chelle: Good luck, buddies.

Laylla: There's a popular legend that was written about in a book, Amelia Mott Gummere's. She wrote a book called Witchcraft and Quakerism. She wrote this in 1908. And it says that William Penn dismissed the charges against Mattson by affirming her legal right to fly on a broomstick. And supposedly he said, well, I know of no law against it.

Chelle: Wow.

Laylla: So according to William Penn himself, witches have the legal right to fly on broomsticks in Pennsylvania. So there.

Chelle: Just not read tarot cards.

Laylla: That's right. Just you can't read tarot. Now, before we get into our spooky witchy ghost stories, I do want to ask you a couple trivia questions, Chelle, because we did just talk about what would you bring to protect you if you're going to a haunted cemetery. So I would like you to tell me if there's anything that you would do to prepare yourself or what would you bring. What three things would you bring with you, or what would you use to prepare yourself if you were going to go to a haunted cemetery?

Chelle: So what I would do is I would grab my Persephone oil, I would grab a stone, and I would grab probably a necklace or or a tool. I have gotten so many amazing things from The Witches Moon. The Persephone oil is just phenomenal. The crystals I have gotten from them are just never-ending beauty for multiple purposes. So, really, I would be grabbing my Witches Moon stuff. How about you?

Laylla: I'm really glad that you mentioned them because I would have to say that every single spell I have done recently has things that I got from one of their boxes. And partly that's because every single box that they send me has a beeswax candle in it, it's got an oil, it's got a crystal, and it's got incense in it, loose herbs, in addition to some amazing other pieces as well. So I'm very happy to use these amazing blends from The Witches Moon, these amazing oils, pull out a beeswax candle, and do a grounding and protection spell on myself, a cleansing spell on myself before I go to one of these places. We just recently went to one of these cemeteries that we're about to talk about, and we cleansed. We used these herbal blends. We used the Persephone oil from The Witches Moon to make sure that we were cleansed, we were buffered, we had a ward of protective energy around us. And part of that was that beautiful necklace that we got from one of the the Witches Bounty boxes recently. Grab on to your broomstick, witches. Back after these messages.

Chelle: Witches, guess what? We are coming to Salem. Laylla, tell them why we're coming.

Laylla: We have been invited by our friends at Pentagram to come down and read tarot.

Chelle: Ooh.

Laylla: So not only are we going to be visiting our favorite haunts in Salem, we're going to be slaying cards at one of our favorite shops.

Chelle: So if you happen to be in Salem October 5th, 6th, and 7th, stop on down to our absolute favorite shop, Pentagram shop. We will be there doing tarot. Come see us.

Laylla: Slots are going fast. So if you want to see us, stop in, say hi, get a selfie, we would love that. And if you'd like your cards read by Chelle or by Laylla, just give them a call, get an appointment, and we look forward to seeing you in Salem, Massachusetts.

Chelle: And to get that appointment booked, you want to give them a shout-out at 978-224-2925. Give Pentagram a call, tell them you want to hook up with Laylla and Chelle.

Laylla: So check us out in Salem if you want to have a witchy good time.

Chelle: And we will be there with our witchy hats.

Laylla: I have a few of those. I wasn't planning on wearing a hat, but I guess I I will now.

Chelle: Well, don't forget we also put a few of our beautiful crystals in our pockets that we have received from The Witches Moon as well because I am a big fan of I like to carry something with me. It makes me feel protected, even if it's just a rock in my pocket. And,

Laylla: Yeah, same.

Chelle: They just the options of different crystals and stones that The Witches Moon offers are phenomenal for any purpose.

Laylla: I also like to leave an offering when I go to a cemetery. I try really hard not to take things with me because I know you're really not supposed to. And so bringing something with me to leave as an offering helps to remind me that I'm not supposed to take anything with me unless I have a special relationship or I ask. So being able to have some of these herbs in my pocket in just a nice little pouch or some small crystals that I've gotten from them, and I love the beeswax candles because they're so nice. I can burn one at home to start the cleansing and protection spell, and then I can finish burning it there. And because it's beeswax, I don't always mind necessarily to leave a little bit of wax behind or to leave some of those herbs behind as an offering. It's just nice to have access to all of these things, and the Witch's Moon is definitely very helpful for that. I love having a subscription box so that I can always have things around. All right, so I kind of let the cat out of the bag a little bit saying that we went to one of these cemeteries. But all of our stories have to do with cemeteries that have witches in them. And we have four amazing scary stories for you guys that we are going to go over right now.

Chelle: But we also did something fun. We decided because, you know, it is a vast land that we live in, we decided to look into places that were within a couple-hour radius of us. So these are semi-local stories to us. So this is kind of fun, and I'm really excited because I know that we went to one or two of these places together, but I know we each got a story that neither of us knows about, so I'm super excited, and I want you to go first. What do you got for me?

Laylla: I'm very glad you want me to go first because this one is amazing. I have never seen graves like this. They were so spooky and eerie and kind of a beautiful...

Chelle: Well, they're amazing, so this better be good.

Laylla: Oh, it's so good. All right, so this is the caged graves of Catawissa.

Chelle: What? Did you say caged?

Laylla: I did say caged. Now, this tale involves... yeah, caged. This tale involves witches, vampires, and a town under a curse.

Chelle: Did you say vampires?

Laylla: I did. I did.

Chelle: Oh, I'm all in. I'm all in.

Laylla: Okay. So, this starts in the late 1800s, which I think all of these kind of take place then. It was a very spooky time in the United States. And weirdly, I found out that there was like a whole vampire craze right around that time, too.

Chelle: Really?

Laylla: Really. And this town is no different. Very small town, and at the time, the cemetery was called the Mount Zion Cemetery. And in this town, local lore says there was a coven of three witches, three young women who were known to be bad as bad could be. They went around seducing men, they danced naked in the moonlight, supposedly they even drank the blood of babies and caused many, many children in the town to die. And that... yeah. So that's partly where the idea that maybe they were vampires came from.

Chelle: Gotcha.

Laylla: Legend says that the three women were Rebecca Clayton, Sarah Ann Thomas Boone, and Asenath Campbell Thomas. Now, Rebecca Clayton died first in about May of 1852, and rumors are is that she was the head vampire or the head witch. And then quickly, her two... not sisters-in-law, but they were all related, two women in her same family died in June of 1852 within days of each other, Sarah Ann and Asenath. And local legend says that after...

Chelle: Wait, didn't you say the first one died in May?

Laylla: I did.

Chelle: Oh.

Laylla: And then in June, the other two women died. Local legend says that the town was fed up with all the antics of these vampires/witches, and they hunted down the head witch, Rebecca, and killed her. But the other two escaped, and it took them a little while to hunt them down and kill them, too. To make sure that they didn't rise from their graves, they constructed these iron cages, these iron metal cages over the top of them so that the witches couldn't get out. Now, have you ever heard of something called a mortsafe or a mort cage?

Chelle: No, I haven't. What's that?

Laylla: That's something that's more common in Europe and Scotland in the 1600s and the 1800s because people used to grave rob, and they would steal bodies. They would put these cages over some of the bodies if people had enough money to prevent their dead loved ones from being exhumed and sold as a cadaver to a school. And although that did happen in the United States, there weren't really any mortsafes or mort cages in the US. As a matter of fact, the two in this cemetery are the only remaining ones. There used to be three over all three graves, but one unfortunately deteriorated in the 1930s.

Chelle: In the whole United States?

Laylla: That's right, the whole United States.

Chelle: Those three people.

Laylla: These are supposedly the only two remaining hooded graves in the United States, and the third was also right there. Now, local lore also says that if you go to the cemetery, you'll hear women whispering, you'll hear eerie laughter, and if you touch any of these iron bars, you'll get an electric shock.

Chelle: Ooh.

Laylla: One local says that he was at the graves many years ago with a few friends, and a lot of people, of course, went there to party, you know, college, blah, blah, blah. He says when he and his friends stepped off the road and went into this tiny cemetery, all the bugs stopped. It was like it went dead quiet. They started daring each other to touch these cages, and his friends were kind of making fun of each other over by one of the graves, and he saw a door in the other one. So he went and tried to open the door in the cage, and he says he didn't get the expected electric shock, but the wind picked up, and he heard a whisper behind him that said, "Shh, don't wake up the baby." And both of his friends were in front of him.

Chelle: Oh my god.

Laylla: He said they must have seen the frightened look on his face because they stopped laughing and started looking a little freaked out and walked towards him. And when one of them got close, they touched the cage and got such an electric shock that they all saw a white flash, and his friend was literally thrown backwards off his feet.

Chelle: Oh, no shit.

Laylla: No shit. So they left immediately. This man refuses to go back. And there's supposedly a whole bunch of stories like that around the local area. Now, the one that got removed in the 1930s, there's a story that says the caretaker that removed it says on the inside of what remained of that iron cage were deep gouges and scratches as if something with like powerful claws had been clawing trying to get out.

Chelle: Oh my god. Oh my god.

Laylla: Yeah.

Chelle: Now, like, do these things like, are they just on the surface, or do they also go under the dirt?

Laylla: These are just on the surface. They're extremely heavy. They're very ornate and actually quite pretty. We'll put some pictures up on social media. They're actually quite beautiful. But no, these, unlike mortsafes or mort cages, do not go down into the ground. They're just over the top of it as if to keep something sealed underground.

Chelle: That's so weird. Oh my god.

Laylla: All right, what's your story?

Chelle: Okay, so I've got a good one to start with. I am going to talk about the Connecticut Hill Cemetery.

Laylla: Oh, oh, we've been there. We've been there. Scary shit happened there, let me just say.

Chelle: I don't know why, I feel like some of these older 1800s cemeteries ended up getting renamed, because both of mine go by two different names. So Connecticut Hill Cemetery was historically known as the Snyder Hill Cemetery. And this is from the 1800s, and it's located deep into a wildlife management area near Alpine and Newfield, New York. And they do consider this one of the creepiest and most active paranormal hotspots in the Finger Lakes region. And there's a lot going on in the Finger Lakes, so that's saying something, in my opinion. This place, we have been there, like you said, a lot of weird shit does happen here. It's an unmaintained... well, I don't want to say unmaintained dirt road, but like, I wouldn't be going up there without good tires, if I were you.

Laylla: Oh, yeah, no, you're going to get stuck. You got to be careful.

Chelle: Yeah. It's very densely wooded. I believe, if I'm not mistaken, it's like 11,000 acres of wildlife management area. So back in the 1800s, there was actually a... I don't want to say a town, but a few houses up on this hill, about 15 houses up there. And there was a cemetery, like all little towns do have, and the local lore and the urban legends surrounding this cemetery are really intense. The town is long gone, so again, the area that had houses on it has been swallowed up by this wildlife management area.

Laylla: Just makes it spookier.

Chelle: It just makes it spookier. So probably one thing that doesn't add is there's said to be a mist that comes down out of nowhere, a blue mist, and that this blue mist just all of a sudden settles into this dense woods.

Laylla: Yeah, I think we've seen that.

Chelle: I will say, you know, you're on a hill, you're in between lakes, you would expect...

Laylla: It gets misty in Pennsylvania, you know.

Chelle: But then that's where the ghostly apparitions come in. Visitors and local folklorists report seeing human apparitions, glowing orbs, your favorite. I know you love a good orb.

Laylla: We've gotten orb photos there before.

Chelle: We actually have gotten orb photos there before. Um, but the shadow people roaming the grounds, and I definitely want to just point that out because there has been a few times that we've been there where we... I don't want to say we knew damn well we were being watched, but we kind of knew damn well we were being watched.

Laylla: A couple times to the point where we literally thought there were other people in the woods with us.

Chelle: Yeah, like an intense, you feel like there's someone there. The other thing I love, love, love, and makes this one of my favorite places, one thing I love about this area is it is also a site of UFOs. Not only is there a creepy cemetery, but there's been UFO sightings here. It is also a hotspot for Bigfoot migrations. And there's a witch buried here.

Laylla: A witch... wait a minute, there's witches buried in my cemetery. No.

Chelle: Uh, there's a witch buried in my cemetery. Now, I remember when you first got me to go to this cemetery, you lured me with the promise of the witch grave.

Chelle: I did.

Laylla: Tell us a little bit about the history of the witch grave.

Chelle: So the local lore claims that a woman, who often in most stories they say is Elizabeth Whitney or Elizabeth Simpson, was buried in the center of a triangle formed by three trees. And they say that she was buried inside this tree triangle because she was a witch. I don't know what the triangle and being a witch has to do with whatever.

Laylla: Well, triangles a lot of times are considered to be like a sacred symbol, and so that would be like a containment. Maybe they were thinking the three sacred trees trying to contain it. I can see that.

Chelle: You know what, actually, now that you said those words, back in this time, you know, you're talking mid-1800s, it could have been Father, Son, and Holy Ghost keeping her in fact. You know what I'm saying? Um, but anywho, this Elizabeth has been buried there. Now, the legend goes that if you go out to this, Elizabeth is watching you. And that kind of checks because, like I said, we have felt watched.

Laylla: Somebody is watching you.

Chelle: Somebody's watching. It is said that if you do not leave an offering at her grave, that she will not let you out of the woods.

Laylla: That grave is covered with offerings of all sorts.

Chelle: Like everything you could think of: coins, shells, stones, pictures, pieces of paper, letters. It's actually kind of interesting to walk upon. But this is in such a densely wooded area that it is easy to get turned around in there and not necessarily be able to find your way back out easily, which we actually encountered while we were there. We did not go out the way we came in, and that was not our intention. Elizabeth is said to not want people there after midnight. If you are there from midnight and beyond, she is said to terrorize you. I saw a YouTube video of a young man who went out and did what he called the 24-hour overnight challenge and camped out there and was terrorized all night long. And she is said to have been practicing witchcraft against the town, practicing witchcraft against livestock, you know, similar to yours, messing with the crops and the livestock and...

Laylla: A witch's tale is old as time.

Chelle: It really is. So they put her in this densely located place hoping that her spirit would just kind of go back to the right way, cross over and be well. But the locals say that was never the case, that she is unsettled and that she is angry and that she's walking the land. Um, you can hear her voice. She's one of the apparitions. Like I said before, there's apparitions of people. She's one of the apparitions that people claim to see. There's mechanical failures that happen out there. Your car is said to die, which we had a car issue one time we went out there. Phones are said to lose battery. We had that happen to us out there.

Laylla: Cameras, too.

Chelle: Cameras, too. The disembodied sounds, they're attributed to the Sasquatch, the Bigfoot migration in the area. There's been even a sheriff's account of hearing the Sasquatch. They, you know, the knocks on the trees they talk about, and some of that weird howling sounds they talk about. All of those have been documented up in that area. And back in the '50s and '60s, there was multiple UFO sightings up at this spot.

Laylla: Yeah, it's like a hotspot of activity.

Chelle: You know, I think the reason why is it's so much wilderness. 11,000 acres is a lot of unpopulated land for a lot of things to happen, and a lot of things happen at this place. And I just, I like that we've been there not once, not twice, but we've been there three or four times, and I am unsettled and spooked each and every time we go, but yet I still want to go back. And I think one day we should try the 24-hour challenge and see if we can make it.

Laylla: Camp out there?

Chelle: Camp out there.

Laylla: I'm down. Maybe when it's warmer.

Chelle: Yeah, I do think that it would be unsettled. Can we take the camper, or should we do it in a tent?

Chelle: No, though, the YouTube video I saw, he camped right at the grave sites, right out by Elizabeth's grave.

Laylla: Okay, fine. When it's warmer.

Chelle: Yeah, yeah, but, but this is definitely an unsettling place, and I know that from personal experience.

Laylla: Very much so. My next story involves yet another interesting monument on a grave.

Chelle: Ooh, what you got?

Laylla: So this one is located in, I love this name, this is Shamokin Cemetery in Shamokin, Northumberland County, Pennsylvania.

Chelle: Can we go there and shamok?

Laylla: I think we should can. Shamok. I don't know. I want a t-shirt or something from there, but Shamokin, how cool is that? That's just kind of a fun name. I just like saying it, Shamokin.

Chelle: Pennsylvania in their town names. Seriously.

Laylla: I love it so much. So this is the Witch Hat Grave. And...

Chelle: Ooh.

Laylla: Okay, so I personally don't think it exactly looks like a witch hat, but kind of. So it's a big red monument with four pillars on the bottom, and the top of it, the part that they say kind of looks like a witch hat, is like a... the conical part of a witch hat, like think of that. It's shaped like that.

Chelle: Uh-huh.

Laylla: But the traditional big wide round brim of a witch hat isn't there, although I suppose you could kind of say the pillars sort of do that. So it's got that big cone at the top, and on the cone are what look like broomsticks. Or possibly upside-down torches.

Chelle: Weird.

Laylla: Right? It's a very striking monument. It's bright red with white on the panels. And local lore says that it is a monument that covers a mass grave of a family of witches.

Chelle: Oh, shit.

Laylla: This was a whole family of witches: grandparents, parents, kids, everybody, all of them witches. Nobody says why, they just said whole family, witches. They were dragged from their house in the middle of the night, and they were thrown into this pit and stoned to death.

Chelle: Oh my god.

Laylla: Right? Terrible. Even worse, one of these kids named Harry Clay, the last name is Van Gaskin, but Harry Clay was the oldest son. He was 16 at the time that he died. And legend says that he was the last one to remain alive after the whole family was stoned in this pit, and that he stayed...

Chelle: That's horrible.

Laylla: Seriously, right? How awful. 16, damn. And that he stayed alive for three days after his whole family was stoned to death, and that he lay there dying.

Chelle: Oh my god. Oh my god.

Laylla: Right? Now, part of this is kind of interesting because rarely in these cases do you hear of male witches. It's usually women, one or two, old grandmother, daughter, mom and daughter, neighbors. But not very often do you hear of male witches. The most famous witch in this family is a young boy. Now, the lore around this says that they erected this monument to keep them in their place, and that the upside-down torches on the cone of the tower were essentially to make sure their souls continued to burn in hell, and if they tried to claw their way back to the earth, these torches would burn them and prevent them from rising from their grave.

Chelle: That's shitty. Like, how shitty are people?

Laylla: Well, and who knows what this family even did, but they must have pissed off somebody because, again, no stories, no evidence, just, "Y'all witches, we're killing you, done."

Chelle: Throw them in a pit.

Laylla: Exactly. Now, the paranormal events around this monument are everywhere. Everybody locally has a story or two to tell about something weird that happened when they went to this cemetery. The most specific thing that I heard was kind of like a Bloody Mary type thing. Essentially, if you go to this monument at night, put your fingers on his part of the monument and say his name three times, he will appear.

Chelle: Oh my god, can we go do this?

Laylla: I don't know. Supposedly really terrible things happen. Everybody's got a story about something awful that happened. Now, the weird thing is, is it's always three days later. And not only is there like this Harry Clay summoning thing where you say his name three times, he'll appear and then something bad will happen three days later, there's also a legend that if you say the nickname, the Witch Hat, of the grave around it, or if you say anything bad about the family, or if you talk about witches, or if you desecrate this grave in any way, something terrible will happen to you three days later.

Chelle: Oh.

Laylla: There's a story of a young man who was part of a restoration crew who was up on a ladder restoring the monument and was not pleased about having to restore the witch grave and was starting to make comments about it. On the third day of work, he fell off his ladder and broke his leg, like really bad, really badly broke his leg. There's stories of high school students going there and like spitting on the grave, and then three days later getting punched in the face. Or someone going and kicking the grave, three days later supposedly their leg froze up on their car and they drove their car full speed into a wall.

Laylla: Oh, wow.

Chelle: Three days later. So, there's all these little stories about terrible things.

Laylla: Maybe we shouldn't go there.

Chelle: Right? Or if we do, we should say nice things, right?

Laylla: Exactly. Leave a couple offerings.

Chelle: Exactly. So, that's the Witch Hat of Shamokin Cemetery in Shamokin, Pennsylvania.

Laylla: It's Shamokin. It is Shamokin. I I think the interesting part is you never see red graves, and the fact that that's a red grave, I find intriguing.

Chelle: It is so striking. You also very rarely, especially in the 1800s, hear about male witches. And this one, the main witch in the story is Harry Clay Van Gaskin. Also, his mother, Mary Furer Van Gaskin, is the other witch that you'll hear quite often talked about. But it's mostly Harry.

Laylla: So, my second story, this is a place, this is interesting. I I definitely was was hooked on this without even knowing most of the story.

Chelle: All right, I'm intrigued.

Laylla: This is the Roseville Cemetery. This is called the Roseville/Watson Cemetery, because you know what cemetery in the 1800s could keep one name and be happy?

Chelle: None of them. None of these bitches.

Laylla: I know. And this is located in Rutland, PA.

Chelle: That's not that far from here.

Laylla: That's not that far from here. This is the legend of Clarina Watson, the Salem witch.

Chelle: A Salem witch in Pennsylvania? No shit.

Laylla: You heard me. You heard me.

Chelle: All right, do tell. Salem witch in Pennsylvania.

Laylla: Okay. I know. It's like it's like a thing that's happening now.

Chelle: I see why you like this story.

Laylla: Right? So, according to the local lore, Clarina Watson lived in Salem, Massachusetts, during the Salem witch trials in 1692, 1693-ish, and she was reportedly condemned to hang. And you know, we we have heard of all of the people that have met a sad fate in Salem.

Chelle: Yeah, I don't think Clarina Watson was either one of the jailed or one of the hanged.

Laylla: Not that I remember of have heard, but I I just wanted to point out.

Chelle: She ended up in Pennsylvania, apparently, so.

Laylla: She ended up in Pennsylvania. So, she was condemned to hang, but actually was able to escape.

Chelle: Okay.

Laylla: The story goes that she was having a little bit of relations with a boy. That boy also was someone who had the ability to potentially open a door from a cell somewhere in.

Chelle: Oh, that's so sweet. Okay. I'd watch that movie.

Laylla: Yeah, seriously. Um, so she actually was able to escape and took off, fled the area, went from town to town, eventually settled down in northern Pennsylvania.

Chelle: That's quite the trip.

Laylla: It is quite the trip. But, you know, you've got to figure back then, wouldn't you make a 400-mile trip if your life was literally on the line?

Chelle: Oh my gosh, yes. I would get as far away as I possibly could. Yeah, go her.

Laylla: She was able to escape Massachusetts, make her way to Pennsylvania, and she got married, you know, tried to to move on with her life. But locals were whispering that she never gave up her old ways.

Chelle: Oh, no.

Laylla: She, yeah. And they said that she didn't really conform well to being a farmer's wife. She continued to practice magic and cast spells on her neighbors, they say. Um, I wasn't able to really find specifics on what type of spells or what type of magic she was casting on her neighbors. You know, it could have been healing magic for all I know. But they say that she was doing that and not really conforming to the quiet farmer life. What ended up happening is Clarina ended up being tried again for witchcraft.

Chelle: No.

Laylla: In the state of Pennsylvania.

Chelle: No.

Laylla: In the state of Pennsylvania.

Chelle: Oh, that poor thing.

Laylla: She did. And this time, she was again condemned to hang, and she did meet her fate.

Chelle: That sucks.

Laylla: Yeah. I mean, come on. Like, you get persecuted once, and then you get persecuted again. Like.

Chelle: Yeah. Finds love a second time. Ah, I feel bad. That sucks. That's a sad story.

Laylla: So, when she's when she died, what they did was they created a ring of trees. Now, I find this funny because my previous story was buried in a triangle of trees.

Chelle: Yeah, and both of mine have monuments of some type that were built over them to kind of. So, these are all unusual. Yeah.

Laylla: Clarina was buried in a ring of cypress trees.

Chelle: Ooh.

Laylla: And there's been a lot of supernatural occurrences that have been sighted there. They say that they put the ring of trees around there to keep her in. And they ended up burying family members in that same ring of trees. Now, there's people that say, legend says, that if you step inside that circle of trees at midnight on Halloween, an invisible force will trap you there, making it impossible for you to get out of that ring of trees. Investigators have reported intense physical resistance or what they say is, quote, unquote, "freezing in their tracks" when attempting to step inside the perimeter. So, there are people that'll block from going in, and there are people that go in and they block from getting out. They also say that when you approach the ring of trees on Halloween night, that you can hear distinct, chilling sounds of the wooden gallows creaking and snapping as if a hanging is taking place there.

Chelle: Wow.

Laylla: Yeah. And it's also supposedly has cold spots there. The area around the grave is known for extreme sudden drops in temperature. A former resident of a house that's next door, and and I've actually seen this house, it's right when you start to pull up into the cemetery, that the owners of that house have said that the bedroom closest to the graveyard has been perpetually freezing cold for the whole time that they've owned the property. So, it's not just that it is just in the circle of trees, it even extends out into the the cemetery and outside of the cemetery area.

Chelle: That is absolutely creepy. Can you imagine sleeping in that bedroom?

Laylla: I mean, I I I would, because that's just the type of person I am.

Chelle: Cuz we would.

Laylla: But I could see where like, I could just imagine you feeling like you're being watched every night when you sleep. But I just go back to, what a fucking shitty deal. You get persecuted for witchcraft, you escape, and then they get you again. Like, could you not have been a little more discreet based on the times?

Chelle: Yeah, that's terrible.

Laylla: Clarina Watson, unfortunately, like I said, met her fate and is still unsettled and unhappy up in the Roseville Watson Cemetery.

Chelle: Now, this is the cemetery that we actually went to, because this story sounded amazing. A witch from Salem came all the way to Pennsylvania only to meet her fate here.

Laylla: Yeah.

Chelle: And we were like, hold on, this sounds weird. So, we looked it up and decided to actually go to the cemetery itself. We drove up to the cemetery. We see this big sign, and the cemetery was established in the 1800s.

Laylla: 1831, to be exact.

Chelle: To be exact. So, we thought, okay, well, maybe there's an older section that the all the 1600 graves are in. Sure, right. Let's go look for the older section. And as we wandered through this graveyard, we did indeed find the circle of cypress trees. And I'm telling you guys, this was gorgeous.

Laylla: Oh, it was distinct. Very I mean, we walked up and we're like, okay, that's where we're supposed to be going. Yeah.

Chelle: Strikingly beautiful. I have never seen a feature like this in a cemetery before. Absolutely stunning. Gorgeous, huge circle of cypress trees, old, old cypress trees. And ringing the inside of these trees were the headstones, some of them quite old. And at the very center was the family monument, the Watson family monument from Clarina's family itself. And as we walked around, we found Clarina's grave.

Laylla: Now, I'd also like to point out that if you are if you are if you're taking note here, the cemetery, like I said, is known as the Roseville/Watson Cemetery.

Chelle: Clarina's name is Clarina Rose Watson.

Laylla: Yeah. So, we get up to Clarina's grave, and we're excited, and it it it's definitely an old stone, and we're like, okay, we found it. We're we're in the circle. Clarina Watson died in 1907.

Chelle: So, either this witch has a fountain of youth spell that I really want a copy of. Hey, Clarina, would you help a witch out?

Laylla: The math ain't mathing.

Chelle: Yeah, Occam's razor says the math ain't mathing here. Clarina was born in April of 1834. So, there's no way that this story could be true.

Laylla: It's just physically impossible.

Chelle: Sadly. Still want that spell.

Laylla: You know, I will say this, though. We did approach that that area, and we looked around at all of the graves inside that cypress ring. I would say 96% of them were Watson family members.

Chelle: Yeah, or probably people who married into it, most likely.

Laylla: Yeah, yeah. And it was very sad because Clarina Watson did have multiple children that died within days of each other.

Chelle: Yeah, three children in one year within days. Terrible.

Laylla: That that's heartbreaking. And I could see where local legend could take that circle and twist it, and, you know, the the children dying in a short succession, I could see them twisting that into a tale. But I will say, you walked into that circle, and there was definitely a different vibe in there. Not going to deny it. Is there a witch buried there? No. At least not a Salem witch. I mean, I don't know what she did with her life behind closed doors, but no.

Chelle: From the sounds of the history that we've been able to dig up on her, she was a upstanding citizen. She she was great, I guess. And that's actually true for every single story we've told you. None of them pan out when you look at the history.

Laylla: That's the thing, you know. Not one of these going back to my Connecticut Hill story, there is a reasonable explanation, actually. Unfortunately, there was there is a grave of an Elizabeth there. We've seen Elizabeth's grave. Um, like you said, there are multiple things that have been left on Elizabeth's grave. But, when you dig a little deeper into it, the tragic real story is in 1835, an eight-year-old girl named Elizabeth was brutally murdered by her 15-year-old cousin in a nearby swampy terrain. And her father's farm was on Connecticut Hill Road, and they believe that she was buried nearby. So, actually, Elizabeth was a little girl that was murdered by her cousin.

Chelle: A tragic story, but.

Laylla: Not a witch.

Chelle: No, but what did probably make her a witch was, I'm sure people were first morbidly fascinated by the story, and then lore builds up on things like that. And and the grave looks weird. The area feels weird and looks weird. It's spooky. It's in the middle of a triangle. There must be a spooky explanation. And that's the same reason why the hooded graves from Catawissa got so much attention. The real story is that all three of these women were part of the same family, the Thomas family, and they all tragically died in their early 20s, either during or shortly after childbirth, which was unfortunately common at the time. And their family were master ironworkers. And so, I think just having three young women die in childbirth had to have been so tragic, had to have been so dramatic, that they wanted to memorialize these beautiful women in some way to show their love, to show their care. And so, they they had constructed these elaborate wrought iron cages, and they're quite beautiful, to memorialize them.

Laylla: You do what you know, and they were iron they were ironworkers, and that's how that's what they knew, that's what they knew to do. That's how they took out their grief.

Chelle: Exactly. And as far as I can tell, the Van Gaskin family just built this big, gaudy, weird memorial because they could. There was no witches, there was no family murdered there. Poor young Harry passed away from getting an illness, they said, after taking in the night air one evening. So, just an illness, nothing supernatural.

Laylla: Well, that sounds kind of kinky.

Chelle: And the upside-down torches, while unusual symbology, and I do love gravestone symbology, it's something that I really like researching. It's very weird. It's very cool. Uh, at the cemetery that we went to see, uh, Clarina's grave, there was some, um, Pennsylvania Dutch signs on a gravestone. But anyway, the Van Gaskin one has upside-down torches, and the symbology of that is just a life extinguished too soon. They're just unusual, and I think because it was different, people make up these stories, and women and witches are easy targets.

Laylla: Yeah, and, you know, teenagers have wild imaginations, and I think a lot of these, uh, legends come from teenagers doing whatever in the woods and trying to get a scare out of their buddies, or, you know, it's I think it's all in good fun all in good fun that turns into a legend that people believe is concrete. And and I just say with these three with these four stories, the lesson maybe is just try to take the extra step and look into it.

Chelle: Yeah, especially now in this season of the witch. Spooky stories are everywhere. And back when we did the Stone Witches Hour, we looked up urban legends and stories like this all the time. And sometimes they're a lot of fun, but you would not believe how many YouTube channels are out there saying some of these stories as if they're fact, and they're really not. There's nothing behind them. Fun to talk about, I suppose, as long as you know what's fact and what's fiction.

Laylla: Yeah, I mean, um, I I was looking up that, uh, Roseville Cemetery story, and one of the hashtags I found on an actual newspaper article, one of the hashtags was "lie." So, there's a clue. Do your research, folks. Do your research.

Chelle: Exactly. All right, well, on that note, we are going to go do some wonderful, spooky things for this season of the witch. I have some apple pie to bake. We've got some simmer pots to get going. We've got all sorts of wonderful fall things planned.

Laylla: And I hope again that everybody gets an opportunity to seek out a local Pagan Pride event in your area, if you haven't already. 'Tis the season to enjoy your friends, enjoy your family, enjoy your community.

Chelle: We want to say a special thank you to The Witch's Moon for sponsoring this episode. We had a blast researching all of these stories, and we absolutely love this place. I know we've talked about it a lot this episode, but this is a place that we have been customers of and that we have adored for several years because they're fantastic. They're amazing. Check them out if you get a chance. If you love witchy things, if you love books, unusual tarot decks, jewelry, crystals, whatever your witchy heart desires, you will find it at The Witch's Moon. And you'll be supporting a small business, a business that helps support artists, local craftspeople, a family. I mean, it's just a wonderful, amazing place. So, if you get a chance, check them out. And don't forget, they are also the suppliers of the three subscription boxes, The Witch's Moon, The Witch's Bounty, and The Witch's Roots box, that we were able to give away on our contest just recently. So, check out our social media. We have three winners who have all said they are super stoked and excited to get their Witch's Moon boxes coming next month. And if you didn't get one, hop on over to thewitchesmoon.com and sign up for a subscription box for yourself or for a friend.

Laylla: I need to go sign up because I wasn't a you didn't let me enter the contest. And I'm still a little bit bitter about that. So, I'm going to have to go get my own. But, super excited for our three winners. They're super excited, and we can't wait for you guys to get your boxes. So, stay wise, stay wicked.

Chelle: And keep it witchy.
