Laylla: Welcome to Back on the Broomstick, a modern witches' spoken word grimoire, where two witchy friends from way back are reconnecting to their pagan roots after a long period of mundanity.

Chelle: We're rewalking the path of the wise and trying out all the latest spells, rituals, and magical theory in today's witchcraft and pagan practices.

Laylla: So grab your wand and your incense, your cauldron and your crystals, and join us as we get back on the broomstick.

Laylla: Hi, and welcome to Back on the Broomstick. I'm Laylla, and on this episode, we're discussing the power of names. A name can be spoken with love or with energy that puts you on edge, and sometimes someone else's name is the first thing you write down when you've had enough. So if someone knows your name, what do they actually have access to, and what can you do about it? Today, we're exploring secret names, the folklore of true names, and the ways a name can connect someone to a magical working. We'll also talk about warding your name, because other people may speak your name, but you still have a say in what power that gives them.

Chelle: And I'm Chelle. And as much fun as it is talking about keeping people's names out of other people's mouths, I want to first talk about what we did this past weekend, Laylla. We had such a great weekend filled with community and friends and chosen family, and it was just a great time. So let the listeners in on how we spent a good old day on Saturday.

Laylla: We had an absolutely amazing time at Central New York Pagan Pride Day up at Lafayette Park near Syracuse, New York. And holy cow, this year was even better than last year. We again had a tent, a community tent, with Crystal City Circle, which is our local pagan community. And I cannot tell you how many listeners and wonderful, amazing new people that we met that came up to us at our booth.

Chelle: You know, it was really a humbling day. It was a fast day, but it was a humbling day.

Laylla: For a day that started at 4:00 a.m. when we left the house until we got back at like 10:00 p.m., it was such a fast day.

Chelle: There wasn't enough time.

Laylla: There wasn't enough time to take pictures. I barely had time to sit down. I don't think you and I managed to eat more than like a couple bites of something, yeah, all day. But it was so much fun.

Chelle: We met fantastic people. We did two amazing workshops and had so many fun folks participate in the workshops with us. And we also facilitated, with some friends, the main ritual. We had our Crystal City Circle friends with us, and we also had a newer friend from the Northern Tier Pagan group with us facilitating ritual. So we had a fantastic time.

Laylla: Shout out to Amy from Northern Tier Pagans. Thank you so much. And a huge shout out to everyone from CCC that helped out. We had a great time. We gave away stickers. We had candy. We had buttons. We, I think we were in a live that CNY did, which was a lot of fun. But one of the things we had at our table that was very popular was a book giveaway. We're going to talk a little bit more about this book in Solarium, but the book is called The Cunning Farmer: Agrarian Magical Practices, Mythology, and Folklore by Todd Elliot. And we had two copies of this to give away. And we're actually going to have another giveaway for our international listeners, or well, okay, not a giveaway, but we'll talk later. So anyway, we had lots of people come over for this book giveaway, and that was a lot of fun, too.

Chelle: I think the draw was the candy. The book is fabulous, but the draw was really the candy. Who doesn't like chocolate? I'm trying to pawn that chocolate off at like 9:30 in the morning.

Laylla: Oh, people were loving it. But I want to say that the stickers were the draw. I think the stickers that we got out there, the ones that you and I designed, the ones my daughter drew, people were loving the stickers.

Chelle: We love the stickers. What are you talking about? And fret not, friends, because yes, we had our stickers available at CNY Pagan Pride Day, but our stickers will soon be available to everyone, so keep an eye out for that.

Laylla: And I want to say a huge, huge hello and thank you to one of our very beloved friends, Danielle, who managed to spend the day with us, which was great fun.

Chelle: Absolutely amazing. I love her so much.

Laylla: And some new friends, Mason, who is a brand new tarot reader who came up with a fabulous tarot spread in our workshop. And also Emma and Jocelyn, who stopped by our tent. So just some listeners. Hi to you guys.

Chelle: Hi, guys.

Laylla: And I know a couple listeners mentioned that they were too shy or were too busy to stop by our tent, which is absolutely okay. We just want to say hi to everybody. So thank you all for coming out and showing solidarity with the greater pagan community.

Chelle: It was, it was a great day, and it was a great day to be a pagan in Central New York. So thanks to Long Branch Park, thanks to Central New York Pagan Pride facilitators. Can't wait to go back next year.

Laylla: And despite our worries last time because of some of the unrest in different parts of Pennsylvania, New York showed out and had zero problems.

Chelle: It was a good day to be a New Yorker. Can't lie.

Laylla: Over 1,600 people gathered for a day of vending, workshops, meetups, community. It was absolutely fantastic.

Chelle: Camaraderie, happiness, and just a peaceful day. And, you know, we appreciate everybody who did and, I guess, did not come out.

Laylla: Exactly. So I hope you guys have a chance to get to a pagan pride in your area or have already been. Look up on Mandragora Magika, check out paganpride.org, check out local places near you, see if there's a pagan pride. It's a great way to meet people.

Chelle: And there's still plenty happening across the country still, so definitely if you are looking for one in your area, hop online because there's still time depending on where you're located.

Laylla: So, back to our topic a little bit. Words, names, have power. Community is a great word, and it has a lot of power. The idea of words have power, names in particular have a lot of power. A speech can move people to change history. A spoken promise can shape someone's entire life. Saying "I love you," "I believe in you," or "You're not welcome here" can change how a person feels in a heartbeat, right?

Chelle: Yeah, and I, you know, I think your name is something, it's the first thing that you're given essentially. I mean, think about it. When you're born, I mean, you might be given a blanket or a little baby hat, but the first real concrete thing you are given in life is your name. That's like your like permanent vibration, I think. That sound is, your name and the sound of your name and the vibration of the sound of your name is like, almost like your permanent forever identity.

Laylla: Well, not, yes and no. Yes and no, because sometimes the name that you're given isn't the name that suits you, but I see what you're saying. The name that you're given is very often the very first thing you learn how to spell. It's very often the first thing you can remember hearing if you think back. And, you know, your name is so very, very personal to you. It's how you are summoned. Like you said, it's your vibration, right? You have a history with it, for good or for bad. You have a history with your name. You spent years answering to it. It's part of relationships. It's deeply part of your memories, a sense of who you are, again, for good or for bad. And if someone yells your name across a crowd, that's a sure-fire way to get your attention. And talking about names and, and names, spoken names having power about you, think, Chelle, to a time when someone in your life that you love has said your name with love, or when an authority figure who's disappointed in you has said your name, or when your mother says all three of your names at once. Right?

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: Those make you feel something. They make you feel something very deeply. Your name definitely has power. And so that's kind of what we're going to talk about today is where that power comes from, what we can do with it magically, and can other people use that power against us, and if so, what do we do about that?

Chelle: You know, I, I think that when you talk about your name in reference to warding, it's kind of like creating a barrier around not only your spiritual self, but your physical self. It's like creating another layer to the onion of your protections. You want to, like you said, when your mother speaks it, it comes out one way, or when a lover speaks it, it's another way, or when an authority speak, you know, speaks your name, how that intonation matters, too. And that's why it can kind of be like a hook or like, what do they call those, like taglocks?

Laylla: Yes, absolutely, it can be a taglock. Okay, so I mentioned at the very beginning of the episode, sometimes a name is the first thing you write down when you're pissed off, right? How many of us have done a freezer spell? How many of us, how many of us have done a back-off spell or a, or a shut-your-mouth spell where you wrote the person's name down? So, a name is a taglock, and is one of the first ones that we learn before sometimes we even know what the term taglock means. And a taglock is essentially exactly what it sounds like. Tag, you're it. I'm locking my intention onto you. Haha.

Chelle: And some people, some people think that taglocks have to be like physical things like, you know, like hair or, you know, a piece of clothing or something, but no.

Laylla: Those do make great taglocks.

Chelle: They do. They do, but they forget that just something like your name can be one as well.

Laylla: Yes. Yeah, a taglock is essentially something that ties back to a person. Right. And so, again, tag, you're it. I'm locking my intention onto you. So, hair is perfect, saliva, things that you have deeply personal things that have your energy. And what's more personal and has more energy than your name?

Chelle: No matter what your relationship is with your name or whether you have kept your birth name or not kept your birth name, if someone, you know, there, if someone knows your name, that's kind of a, a unique energetic signature, whether you love that name or not, it, it does have, that name that you were first given has an energetic signature that links to you forever and ever. You might not like it, and you might not want to use it, but it is still a link to you.

Laylla: It is. And until you sever that link, it does have power over you. So if someone calls out your name, you immediately turn your head. If someone magically or energetically calls out your name, you will magically or energetically turn to face them. So learning how to work with that, either by calling someone else or, or how to ward yourself against that, can be a very powerful tool. So where does some of this come from? Like, where does the idea of a name having power, where does that come from? And have you ever had a magical name, Chelle?

Chelle: Well, I, I've had a couple magical names, and I think the first one I had was a peer pressure thing. Yeah. It kind of peer pressure thing, but I think, you know, your first question, you know, where did, where do these come from, it's going to depend on why do you have an alternate name to begin with.

Laylla: Yes. Oh, okay. Yes. All right. So, magical names, nicknames, pen names, pseudonyms, nom de plumes, these have been around for a very, very long time, and people have taken different names for all sorts of different reasons. Uh, maybe it's some type of protection. All right, so there's a ton of folklore out there about how the fey, if they know your name, can have power over you, and if you know their name, that you can control or call them. And a lot of that goes back to old folklore. You'll hear a lot of that. If you know something's true name, you can call it. There's also a lot of fiction books, uh, like the Wizard of Earthsea series has that, where if you know the true name of something, you have power over it. So there's a bunch of folklore that goes back with that type of information. And so sometimes people would take nicknames to protect their true name. Or say in the case of like the Golden Dawn, back in the 1800s, the Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn, they used mottoes, like initiatory mottoes, as part of their magical identity. So, like they would take a spiritual aspiration or something that they, they felt called to, and they'd create a name out of that. Like, uh, okay, take Violet Mary Firth. Have you ever heard of her?

Chelle: Yeah, but now I'm trying to think of where Violet Mary Firth came from. Did she like violets?

Laylla: No. The reason you, you probably can't remember exactly who Violet Mary Firth is, is because she normally goes by the name Dion Fortune.

Chelle: Oh, yeah. Okay.

Laylla: Her adopted name came from her family motto, "Deo non fortuna," which is "by God, not by chance." And so Dion Fortune is how she got her name. So from the motto, she created a name.

Chelle: Oh, I did not know that. That's very cool, actually.

Laylla: Neat, right? And so taking a magical name is, in this case, taking on a whole phrase, or when I took my first magical name, I thought, I kind of thought I had to. I guess peer pressure is a little bit part of it. But like I took the name of a deity that I felt very connected to, but I changed the spelling, first of all, because I thought it was kind of presumptuous to have the name of a deity. And secondly, I also thought it had to fit with my birth number, like the letters had to add up to my birth number. I had all sorts of weird ideas about what a, a magical name had to be. It was never something people ever really called me. It was just kind of something I would write down in my book of shadows. So different cultures have all sorts of different things. There's coming-of-age ceremonies where when you reach a certain age in your life, you're given a name. So these are deeply tied to who we are and to our magical selves. Authors very often, like, we just watched a movie the other day, The Long Walk, right?

Chelle: Yep.

Laylla: By Stephen King, written...

Chelle: But that's not, that, I was going to say that's not the name he went by when he wrote the story.

Laylla: He wrote it under Richard Bachman. And authors will write things, like the Brontë sisters used men's names, men's names. Granted, they all started with the same letter as their actual first name, which is kind of cool. But because they didn't think that they would be taken seriously. Or sometimes they'll do it for protection. Sometimes famous authors will write under a pseudonym so that their work can be judged on its own merits rather than on their name. You know, people will say, "Don't tarnish my name." Your family name carries a lot of, uh, strength. So we give names a lot of power, just, just by nature, just in our culture.

Chelle: It's, it's definitely something that I think as a society we've done, as a human society we've done, because you look at names back hundreds of years, and names matter. You know, you look at kings and queens, and it doesn't even have to be in the British monarchy, it can be in any monarchy in Europe. Go look back at kings and queens, and traditionally, they went by about 7 to 12 different names, and that was it. There wasn't, you know, you might have been born Joseph, but you end up King Henry IV. Like, how does this happen? So it, it actually is starting to change where people are not doing that anymore. They're not taking those names. Charles is an example, Elizabeth is an example. Royal names are really good example of that. You said like 12 names. Can you explain a little bit like what they were? Because I know it was, there were titles in there, there were honorifics that were given, like Redbearded or Great Shouldered, you know, stuff like that. So it was all sorts of different names, but they were given those names for a reason, for different reasons. Can you explain some of that? Well, you know, some of it was to kind of distinguish or give, give an idea of where they're from or a battle that they won or something that they were well known for across the lands. So that's where some of those distinctions came about. But then you get, you know, "I want to be King Edward," and "I'm Edward the bad guy." But now, 100 years later, "Edward the good guy" wants to come. He wants to take that name Edward, but he doesn't want to be associated with the bad, so he's maybe Edward the Conqueror. Or some of it was a combination of combining realms, too.

Laylla: So the names would be taken to be awards or to be an announcement of what they had done, or to call back to a relative, or to combine kingdoms.

Chelle: Or, or I was going to say, or to bring groups of people together, yeah. You would be more apt to maybe follow a name that you're familiar with than you would to follow a name you're not familiar with.

Laylla: Right. So people would take on a whole different name so that maybe some...

Chelle: Familiarity.

Laylla: Right.

Chelle: Familiarity.

Laylla: And that would bring power because the power associated with the name that people were familiar with, you now put on like a mantle when you accept that new name.

Chelle: Right. Like Elizabeth is a perfect example. You know, when you think of Queen Elizabeth I, you immediately get this image in your head of this, you know, kind of feminist, strong, powerful woman. It just so happened Elizabeth II's name was Elizabeth. They wanted her to change her name, and she was like, "Nah, it's my name. I'm going with it." And it had nothing to do with association with the first Elizabeth. She just liked her damn name and didn't want to change it. She just liked her damn name and didn't want to change it. It didn't conform with, or it did happen to actually conform with the list of optional names she was allowed to take at the time. There are people who are completely in love with their name, and that has magical meaning, but there are people who really seek out something that has significance to them, that speaks to them. And I do think that that can happen, at least in modern-day royalty, where some of these folks do or do not choose to change their name when they take a throne for the sake of what it means to them, not necessarily the power that comes with a name like maybe it would have been 400-500 years ago.

Laylla: So Queen Elizabeth is actually a good example of one of the things I wanted to point out is that names can give you a very strong sense of self. You might love your first name or your last name, or maybe you really identify with your middle name, but a lot of times what we're named can tell us a lot about who we are and can help us to hold on to who we are. The thing with the Queen knowing who she is and keeping her own name kind of reminded me of another point I wanted to make. And in the movie Spirited Away, the main character, Chihiro, she goes on a journey. She ends up in the spirit world, and she becomes Sen. But she's told that she shouldn't forget her real name. And part of that is because that's going to help her keep her identity. Knowing what her name is is a, is a example of knowing who she is. So like Queen Elizabeth knew who she was. She didn't need to take on another name to take on any other qualities. She was very confident in who she was.

Chelle: And I wonder if if Stephen King is another example of that. You know, he he starts out his career writing a couple of books under this Richard Bachman name and then it's like, you know what, bitches, I'm good with who I am. I am Stephen fucking King. Let's do this.

Laylla: All of that's a good reminder, too, that there's different times in our life when you might want to take a different name. Like when you're a little kid, did you ever go by a nickname? Or did you have a sibling that went by a nickname?

Chelle: Absolutely.

Laylla: Those are like kid names. And then when you get older, maybe you stop using the diminutive of your name and you start using your full name. Or maybe you stop going by your middle name and you start going by your first name. Name changes can be a marker of a change in your life. Maybe you just became the Queen of England and now you need to change your name. Or you just became the Pope and you need to change your name. Or you just came of age in your religion or in your culture and now you need to choose an adult name.

Chelle: The same can be said with with folks who choose to get married as well, because you'd you get to a point in your life where, if you do choose to get married, you have the choice to, at the very least, change your last name or not change your last name. And that can kind of also give you a different identity. You know, your identity has evolved. I don't want to say your identity's changed, but your identity has evolved as you've grown.

Laylla: Exactly. So, major life changes. If you're transitioning and you now have a new name for for the self that you have always been and you want a name to represent that, sometimes people will even go so far as to have a ceremony for their dead name and then have their new name to better correspond with who they are. Maybe you have gone through a divorce, maybe you've gone through a major change in your life and you want to change your name to reflect that identity that better represents who you are now. Maybe sometimes even more so than adopting a new nickname. For one, I can say that you, Chelle, I call you Chelle now more so than I call you the name that I called you years ago. This is a you stepping into a new name, a new nickname that better represents who you are.

Laylla: Grab onto your broomstick, witches. Back after these messages.

Chelle: Witches, guess what? We are coming to Salem. Laylla, tell them why we're coming.

Laylla: We have been invited by our friends at Pentagram to come down and read tarot.

Chelle: Ooh.

Laylla: So, not only are we going to be visiting our favorite haunts in Salem, we're going to be slaying cards at one of our favorite shops.

Chelle: So, if you happen to be in Salem October 5th, 6th, and 7th, stop on down to our absolute favorite shop, Pentagram shop. We will be there doing tarot. Come see us.

Laylla: Slots are going fast. So, if you want to see us, stop in, say hi, get a selfie. We would love that. And if you'd like your cards read by Chelle or by Laylla, just give them a call, get an appointment, and we look forward to seeing you in Salem, Massachusetts.

Chelle: And to get that appointment booked, you want to give them a shout out at 978-224-2925. Give Pentagram a call, tell them you want to hook up with Laylla and Chelle.

Laylla: So, check us out in Salem if you want to have a witchy good time.

Chelle: And we will be there with our witchy hats.

Laylla: I have a few of those. I wasn't planning on wearing a hat, but I guess I I will now.

Chelle: Yeah, and I mean, it's just ultimately just a version of my name. I mean, it doesn't take rocket science to figure out what my what my legal birth first name is. I think that I just had a name that was conducive to that, and you're an example where you kind of don't.

Laylla: Yeah, Laylla's not something that you can really shorten down. But I don't really want to. And you seemed like had reached a point, this isn't like a necessarily a magical thing, but you were like, I'd really like to be known by Chelle for this reason and that reason. And people go through that. And I think as magical people, that can be a very powerful thing. Like, one of the things I mentioned is that in some religions, it's very, very accepted that you have a coming of age ceremony or when you convert, you have a ceremony where you choose a new name because you've now entered into this religion. And a lot of witches and a lot of pagans will do that. That was a very accepted thing back when we first started, particularly even now if you join a a coven or if you join a magical group. I believe you just recently joined a group and one of the requirements was to choose a magical name.

Chelle: Yeah, this was back when I was in Salem and actually, you know me, I'm not really a big rule follower. So, back when we first started this path many moons ago, I I felt a little peer pressured and picked a name that I wasn't really in love with, but kept it for a few years. But then when we had started our coven back in Binghamton, Circle of Mabon, I had actually taken on a magical name that really kind of suit me and fit me in magical space for decades. So, I convinced my Salem coven to let me keep that magical name and be initiated into that tradition under the same magical name that I had coveted for many years.

Laylla: That's a very good example of you started out with a magical name that didn't really suit you.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: So, it didn't really represent you. You didn't feel connected to it. Then, when given an opportunity to rename yourself magically, you found one that fit so well that you've carried this name for decades and were even initiated into a into a coven where technically was it wasn't that even like against the rules, that name?

Chelle: A little. Kind of a little bit. It didn't quite suit the tradition 100%, but you know.

Laylla: But it suited you 100% and that was the important part. Magically, that name is so connected to you that you couldn't lie to your magical self and pick a name that didn't fit.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: But when you walk into magical space, when you're called by that name, it changes how you feel. Just like it changes how you feel when your lover calls your name or when the principal calls your name or your boss says, "Chelle, get in the office."

Chelle: Right. Right.

Laylla: That can mean two very different things depending on who's saying it. So, being called by that magical name evokes a feeling. It it helps you to get into that magical space. Oh, I am this person. I am Moonflower Sunbeam Ophelia. That's me. And when I hear that, I know that I'm in magical space and that can really change how you feel.

Chelle: Absolutely. And and, you know, using your example of different people calling you by your name and how that makes you feel, 100%. You know, you get a gut feeling when you hear your first, middle, and last name in a stern voice that sounds like your mother. When someone says your magical name, it almost it it it's that switch in your mind. It I don't want to say that it can kind of immediately put you in that space, but after having done it for a long time, it can immediately put you in that space, just like the anxiety of your mother screaming your first, middle, and last name in an angry tone.

Laylla: Exactly. Yes. And so, the biggest reasons to take a magical name would be for to show that something has changed, to show a devotion. I I am so devoted to this path that as I dedicate myself to it, I am taking a magical name to show that I have changed, that I'm a changed person. You can take a magical name to have secrecy. There were a lot of people in our coven and in our greater magical community that could not feel safe by their mundane name because they might lose their job, they might lose their children, they might lose their house loan or something. You know, there was a lot of fear around being found out and being persecuted for being a witch.

Chelle: Yeah, and and I think that even to this day, unfortunately, that is still the case. You know, there are some people that have a a lot at stake and are cautious, very cautious about who knows and who does not know about their doings outside and inside of work. And that secret name, that magical name, that craft name can be very, very integral for some people.

Laylla: Mhm. And the third reason is really because you want change. You want to embody that name, that this is a path you're walking and I want to feel the strength of the oak. So, I take the last name Greatoak. And so, I want to feel that strength and that.

Chelle: I'm just glad you didn't say hardwood.

Laylla: It was an option. It was a thought.

Chelle: It was, but yeah, you maybe there are things you want to embody or or maybe there's something that you feel, you know, really connected to, the moon. You know, maybe you want to be Freya Silvermoon, you know, I mean.

Laylla: Right. Maybe you feel very connected to that and hearing those words makes you feel empowered and magical and helps to connect you with your magical self. So, that is my favorite reason for choosing a magical name is to help me feel magical and empowered. And you can choose to keep that secret and keep that power close to you, or you can choose to share that. Maybe it's more of a pen name and you have another secret name. The protection part, the secret part, why people choose to keep it secret is the second half of this episode. And that's how do you ward your name? If names are this powerful, if a name being called can get your attention across the room, or a name that you write down and stick in your freezer is powerful enough to stop someone from bugging you at the office, what can you do to protect yourself from having your name used against you? And one of those is to have a secret name or a true name. So, you choose a magical name and you name yourself this. Maybe you have a ceremony. I believe when I took my first name, I did a full-on ritual to name myself Ceridwen, spelled super weird, so that I could be so that I could embody this witch queen, this magical, mystical, cauldron-bearing, badass witch, and I could embody those energies. So, I did a whole ritual to embody that and make that my true magical name. And then I kind of kept it secret by emblazoning it on the spine of my grimoire. So. But, yeah, take a magical name, keep it secret, and that is one way to protect yourself. So, if someone is using your birth name to say bad shit about you, it's just going to kind of bounce off because that birth name is just your surface name. It doesn't get past your wards. It doesn't get past your skin. It's just on the surface. Your true name, your magical name that you have kept secret is kind of behind those layers of the name everyone knows you by, and so that gives it a shield. That kind of puts it in a safe, protected place.

Chelle: I think one quick thing that I think is is a useful way to try to ward your name, especially if you need to do it quick on the fly, is to light a candle, write write down your name on a piece of paper, and you're going to want to fold it to you because you're going to want to keep it in. You're going to want to fold the paper towards you and and draw in that protection. And then you have options here. You can burn it. You can take that and save it. Sometimes I'm a fan of fire. So.

Laylla: Sometimes.

Chelle: Yeah, well, you know, as long as you're folding this piece of paper into yourself thinking about that protection and and drawing that protection into you, then you could burn it. But you could also bury it or or whatever makes you feel comfortable. So, that's kind of a quick way.

Laylla: One thing I like to do with that same thing, write your own name on the paper, fold it towards you, and then I like to seal it with wax. Take a nice black candle. Black is an excellent protective color, or any color that's your favorite. Make sure it's one that can get a nice puddle of wax, but burn the candle and as it's burning, chant, "My name is safe. My name is mine. Keep all harm," I don't know, rhyme it some way.

Chelle: Oh, another good thing to say is you could like just kind of loudly declare that when anyone writes your name, speaks your name, thinks your name, anything.

Laylla: "I'm rubber, you're glue. Whatever you say bounces off me and sticks on you."

Chelle: Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.

Laylla: And keep my name out of your mouth.

Chelle: Exactly.

Laylla: That type of thing, whatever you want to say. And then concentrate that on the flame, that anything that comes to you gets burned up in the flame and bounced away.

Chelle: Yep.

Laylla: And then pour the wax over the little folded piece of paper until it's completely covered in wax, completely sealed in wax, almost as if it's a a shield of wax. And now you're shielded and just keep that on your altar. Keep that little token there. Keep it protected. You could also put it under a stone that you like, and that will also protect you.

Chelle: I like that. I like that.

Laylla: And so, same type of spell, just slightly different way to offer protection. Anything that you could think of that would be protective, you can do that. I also like to put it underneath a mirror, which is a wonderful way to bounce energy back to whoever said it. So, anytime someone says your name, if you write it on the back of a mirror, it will bounce that energy back to them. So, if they say your name with love, they'll get that bounced right back and it'll be wonderful.

Chelle: Oh, that's so sweet.

Laylla: Right? They say it with friendship, that'll come right back to them.

Chelle: Oh.

Laylla: However, if they say it with malice and hatred, guess what that witch is getting back.

Chelle: Fucking around and finding out.

Laylla: Exactly. Mirrors are fabulous for that.

Chelle: Yeah, and, you know, I think that it really doesn't hurt to every now and then just kind of ward your name. Just you're going to clean your space, you're going to clean your energy, you're going to clean your altar, why aren't you cleaning your name? So, I think that this is something that that you should put in your regular rotation of spiritual cleansing practices.

Laylla: Mhm. Here's another one. Take a lemon, cut it in half. With salt, sprinkle the salt on one of the half lemons, your first initial. And on the other half of the lemon, sprinkle your last initial. And then take those two lemons and set them next to each other and just keep them on a windowsill for three days. Keep them for three days. And then throw them away or bury them. And that's cleansing. Lemon and salt, literally if you were to put those two things together, you could scrub a pan with that shit. So, what this is doing is this is taking your name and it is cleansing any energy that comes on the wind. Any energy that comes into your home is going to get straight to that lemon and salt and be cleansed. And then after three days, everything that has been absorbed, you then throw away and you've gotten rid of that.

Chelle: I think I need to go to the store and get some lemons and salt. You know, you never can be too sure and it's been a minute. I got a lot of names I got to ward right now, you know.

Laylla: So, whether it's a name that you were born and given, whether it's a chosen name, whether it's a nickname or a name that you go by in public or a name you go by in private, or a name you don't tell anyone, you just keep between you and the gods, they have power.

Chelle: Even if it's a name you were peer pressured into getting.

Laylla: Or that you spelled really weird to fit strange conventions you found in the big blue book. I don't know. Okay, so when you're thinking about names, one name we want you to keep in your mouth is Back on the Broomstick. Sometimes I think with names, you just got to take a minute and you got to decide, am I going to shield my name or am I going to let people have access to that? And if you're going to let have people have access to one or multiple names that you go by, as you would with anything else, be smart about it. You would protect your space, you would protect your person, so protect your name. Let us know, do you have a magical name? Did you choose a name based on who you are, who you want to be, or your favorite magical saying? Let us know in the comments. Go to our Facebook group, Back on the Broomstick Discussion Group on Facebook, and let us know. Go to our Instagram, check out our socials, let us know. Do you have a magical name? What is it and how did you choose it? Thank you so much for listening to this episode. Please like, subscribe, give us some reviews, give us some stars. It really helps the show out and it helps people to find us. Until next time, be wise, be wicked.

Chelle: And keep it witchy.
