Laylla: Welcome to Back on the Broomstick, a modern witches' spoken word grimoire, where two witchy friends from way back are reconnecting to their pagan roots after a long period of mundanity.

Chelle: We're rewalking the path of the wise and trying out all the latest spells, rituals, and magical theory in today's witchcraft and pagan practices.

Laylla: So grab your wand and your incense, your cauldron and your crystals, and join us as we get back on the broomstick.

Laylla: Hi, and welcome to Back on the Broomstick. I'm Laylla. Happy October. And we're heading into the season of the witch. This is the season of endings, ancestors, and dark and powerful deities. As we move towards Samhain, we're thinking about the goddesses who stand at thresholds, walk through the darkness, and remind us that we have power of our own.

Chelle: And I'm Chelle, and I just love this time of year overall. This kind of between the spokes period is, it's very lovely. You get days that are warm, nights that are cold, the veil, you just feel it getting thinner and thinner every minute. It reminds you that things are getting dark, things are going within, and that includes us.

Laylla: This is one of the between the spokes times that is very much consumed by the upcoming holiday. I'm pretty sure that very few people are thinking fall and harvest home and Mabon and the autumn equinox right now, even though that's what the weather is very much giving us.

Chelle: No, not at all.

Laylla: Yeah, no. Everyone is all consumed with Samhain, with the upcoming Samhain holiday, all of our decorations. Halloween is a big thing here in the States. It's a huge holiday. I mean, it's very commercial, but it's also a time for those of us that are witchy and witchy-adjacent to really be out there and open with our witchy, pagan selves because all the decor and everything is so normalized that we can just embrace it this time of year.

Chelle: I laugh at that because that is so true. Even where I'm currently living, there are Halloween lights outside. The Amish folk drive by and stare at them and giggle, and it's, it's, it's amazing. It's normal right now. If we were to do that in like, I don't know, March, people would be like, "Huh, they're kind of weird." You can kind of get away with a little of the weirdness right now.

Laylla: That's true. In March, they do kind of say that about me, and that's okay. I'm all right with that. It's all right.

Chelle: This time of year also kind of brings about not only the thinning veil and, and that darker half of the year, but it also brings dark goddesses to mind.

Laylla: I think because we are so Samhain-focused and everyone notices now that we're in the dark half of the year, once you hit that harvest home, autumn equinox point, it, we're really seeing the dark. We're really feeling it. It's definitely all around. So, I think people really turn towards dark goddesses, dark deities this time of year. It's easier to see them, I think. It feels easier to connect with them. And we get a lot of questions pretty regularly about goddesses, in particular that you and I work with, who do seem to be coming into popularity along with some other dark deities. And everyone knows that you and Hecate are besties. It has also been mentioned a few times that I have worked very closely with Lilith in the past. So, these are the two that we're going to focus on.

Chelle: Now, we get questions all the time, um, that we try diligently to answer to the best of our ability. But we got some related questions we want to address. So, this one's from Annie asking, "When should she act on a strong pull towards Hecate? Is it okay to reach out while I still feel unsure of my practice, and how can I avoid being disrespectful?" And I think that's really a good place for us to start this conversation is what happens if you feel that strong pull? What do you do? What if you're new to witchcraft and you're like, "Is this a strong pull or am I crazy?" It's something that's really hard to discern in those early days of being a witch. So, what I would say to Annie or anyone else that, no matter where you are in your practice, brand new, middle of the road, or a seasoned witch, if you are feeling a strong pull to somebody, whether it be Hecate or Lilith or anyone, act on that. Do, do research. Read books, study everything you can, and that's how you be respectful. So, that kind of answers the "What do I do and avoid being disrespectful?" Learn all you can about that deity. That's how you be respectful.

Laylla: We get that type of question repeatedly. People want to know, "Am I seeing a sign from a deity? Am I seeing a pull from a deity? Is this deity calling me? How do I know if I'm being called?" We get that question in so many different forms. And I think the biggest thing to remember is that it really doesn't matter. A lot of people like to feel like they're being called. It feels like being chosen. And that's cool. That's wonderful if it happens. But it doesn't always, and it's not going to always. But if you think you want to study a deity, or if you think you are interested in a deity, that's all you need. You don't need some special sign from above. You don't need a special calling. You don't need animals to show up and, and special signs. If you get them, that's great. If you feel like you have a sign and that means you should research a deity, do it. But there's no need for a special call. If you just are interested, you can do it then.

Chelle: Absolutely.

Laylla: These are the kinds of questions that we get pretty regularly. And before we get into more of these questions, let's talk a little bit about who these deities are. Who is Hecate? Where does She come from? Who is Lilith? Where does She come from?

Chelle: So, with Hecate, I think that sometimes She's a misunderstood deity. I would say probably the thing She's most associated with, crossroads is probably top, magic, witchcraft, and your personal ability to make choices. Hecate is the assister of choice-making. So, I also kind of connect Her to the triple goddess as the crone aspect. I have, in the past, have put Her in that maiden aspect as well as mother aspect, but I think pretty dominantly for me, myself, I think of, of Hecate in the crone aspect, kind of that person who assists you with navigating life, the person that has a little bit more wisdom and knowledge that guides your way.

Laylla: Hecate is definitely the guide. And one of the things that's very interesting about Her is historically, She is a triple-faced goddess, but She's not the triple goddess. Historically, She just has three faces because She stands back-to-back-to-back so that She can see all directions, because She is that guide. She's the one who watches over you. Now, a more modern interpretation has placed that maiden, mother, crone on Her, and it fits Her very, very well. Although that's not a historical connotation, that is a modern interpretation that works very well with the type of goddess that She is.

Chelle: Yeah, and that's, that's why I said that that's kind of how I see Her because I know that different folks have different views of how they view Her in or not in that triple form. Yeah, for me, I just kind of predominantly see Her in that crone.

Laylla: And She's great for that because She can be any of them.

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: So, how did you first find Hecate? When you first started working with Hecate, was there a sign? Did you choose to work with Her? Did you see black dogs everywhere? What kind of drew you to working with Hecate?

Chelle: It's a funny origin story because I've never really leaned towards Greek mythology or Greek deities really in any way. Obviously, I came into this witchy, pagan life knowing probably the most about them because you were taught the, the Greek gods in school. But I always kind of just felt Her in the back nagging. There was a nag. And with me, it wasn't really the dogs, it was keys. I was finding keys everywhere. Crossroads, whether it be physical crossroads or the word crossroads, was coming up a lot in my life at that particular moment. And I ended up trying to find out what the key, you know, what the reoccurring key thing was and, and what the crossroad thing was, and it actually led me to Hecate because it wasn't that I even knew anything about Her or knew that She existed at that point. It was just all these signs, and doing the research into the signs is what led me to Her.

Laylla: And what did your first initial workings with Hecate look like?

Chelle: You know, it's funny because I have brought out the old book and I bring this book out less and less because it's getting more and more fragile. But my first writing is about Hecate I found in one of my first Book of Shadows, and that was dated in October of 1996. I think what really drew me to Her based on what I wrote in this book was She's kind of a sovereign goddess, bringing you into yourself, you know, taking, taking control of your own destiny. I liked that She kind of was that linear at the crossroads, can be in the material world, can be in the spirit world, and walk the paths between. And those were things that kind of first attracted me. I did my first ritual with Hecate in January of '97. Actually, you were a participant in that ritual. In that ritual, I did, uh, we did a maiden, mother, crone, uh, invocation, and I invoked Her as the crone. For a long time, I did kind of feel Her that way. I feel that there has been such an uprising that the view I have of Hecate is how people kind of view Her today, and I guess I mean that more in a physical form. I kind of have always seen Her in that crone-like form, whereas I think now, in the 2020s, She's a little more sexualized visually. Not a fan of that, but how my relationship has evolved is there is times, and people are going to find this, where She may fade in and out and come and go, but is kind of always there in the background. You know, we've talked about stints where I have gained knowledge and, and worked with Pele, or Ceridwen, or the Morrigan. But those weren't, those were almost like friends that you visit, whereas Hecate's kind of the standard that, you know, I always have circled back to, despite any other god or goddess that I've worked with.

Laylla: In our early practice, we made it a point to work for a period of time, sometimes a year and a day, sometimes less, sometimes more, with deities to learn about them, whether we felt called to them or whether we chose them. And so that was part of how you came to work with some of these deities. And in searching on those signs, that's how you came across Hecate. That's important to understand, as I know I said that earlier, but it doesn't matter if you've seen signs or if you just choose. There is power in all of that. And learning about these deities is such an important part about it, and that's exactly what you did. You felt these callings and you decided to start learning. You did as much research as you could, and that led you down some very interesting pathways.

Chelle: But I think the important thing in that, too, is that I also had spent time and, and gained knowledge and did work with other deities because, like you said, that, that year and a day thing that we had done was how I spent time with Pele. And after that year and a day, I was like, "Okay, maybe that's not the one for me to work with all the time." So, I think the important thing is to just gain all the knowledge you can about any, any deity or any subject you can, and you're going to know what resonates and sticks and calls to you. So, even if there are not signs and there's not dreams and the stars weren't written for you in a certain deity, if you spend the time, you'll find the deity that is meant for you to work with primarily.

Laylla: Sometimes there's different reasons why you might work with a deity. And that very much encompasses my relationship with Lilith. In talking about Lilith, you cannot get away from Her many and varied roots. She is primarily a demon from the Jewish mythology, from the Jewish mythos. And you cannot get away from that, as much as we might like it. We're going to start there, and it's probably going to piss some people off. I'm also going to say that She is not white with red hair, nor is She blue-eyed with blonde hair. Sorry, if that's how you'd like to see Her, great, I guess, but that is not who She is.

Chelle: I cannot imagine Lilith blue-eyed and blonde hair, I'm just saying.

Laylla: Ay-yi-yi. So, this is okay. To talk about Lilith is to talk about the demonization of women. So, we've got misogyny, we've got anti-Semitism, we've got all sorts of bullshit in here when we talk about Lilith. And no matter how I talk about Her, people are going to be pissed off. So, I understand. Come at me. I don't mind a good debate. I also love new knowledge, so please, I love it, bring it. Anyway, so here's what I got for you on Lilith. We're going to start with some of Her very first mentions, and this is would be on actually on clay bowls back in like 2300 BCE. They have mentions of Lili or Lilitu or Lilith on these bowls. They were called demon bowls, and they would be buried upside down typically under people's houses or under their beds or under their children's beds in order to protect them from demons of the night that would try to get them. Because these Lili, these Lilitu, these Lilith are demons, and they were scary. They would walk the night and they would kill babies. They would try to steal the seed of men. Uh, so they were considered succubae. They were considered vampires because it was thought that they would suck the blood out of babies. Crib deaths a lot of times were attributed to these creatures.

Chelle: It's funny because most people associate Lilith with being Adam's first wife, as in Adam and Eve.

Laylla: Yes. Now, that is another origin story of Lilith. So, these Lilitu, these Lilith are Mesopotamian and Syrian mostly myths, and they are also related to the Lilith of the Bible. Now, Lilith is only mentioned in one place in the Bible, but She's inferred in a couple places. There's another writing called the Alphabet of Ben Sira, which many people take to be a satirical story referencing the Bible, and there's also the Zohar, which is a, an ancient text. So, the story of Lilith from the Abrahamic religions is that in the beginning, their God created man and woman equally from the earth. Later, it said that Adam was lonely and God created a helper for him, a spouse for him from his rib. So, that's different than where the story started. So, the Alphabet of Ben Sira says that the first wife of Adam, the one that was created equal to him, was named Lilith. And Adam and Lilith roamed in the Garden of Eden together. Lilith, being equal to and sovereign just as Adam was, didn't like it when Adam tried to order her around. And he also wanted to be on top during sex all the time, and she didn't like that either. She wanted to be on top sometimes, too. When he got upset about this, Lilith basically said, "Screw you, I'm out," and took off. So, basically, she had the first divorce. And she went to live on the beach with some demons. When Adam complained to God, God then created Eve. Lilith came back to the Garden of Eden, saw that Eve was submissive, and said, "Hey, Eve, they're both kind of lying to you. You know that tree in the middle of the garden that God said would kill you if you ate from it? It actually will give you knowledge. They're liars. Go ahead and eat that apple." So, Lilith was telling the truth and God was lying, and Eve ate the apple, and we know the rest of that story. God sent some angels after Lilith, and God put a curse on her and said, "A hundred of your children will die every day that you do not return and submit to Adam," which is kind of a shitty thing to do. So, these angels go, they try to negotiate with Lilith to come back, and she says, "Hey, God told me my job is to kill babies. I was put here and created to kill babies. I will keep doing that. I don't want to go back to Adam, and God can keep killing a hundred of my kids every day. But I will let people protect themselves from me if they say your names, if they say these sacred names." So, even though she was given this job to be evil, she decided to also give the ability to protect yourself from her, because she knows she has to do it, but here's the way to protect yourself. Anyway, that kind of sums up the dichotomy of Lilith. She is the giver of knowledge. She is a sexual equal, but she's also a demon. She has a job to kill children, but she's also going to tell you how to protect yourself from her.

Chelle: It's similar with Hecate, you know, being a goddess of choices and crossroads and all of that. As I know you are aware, Hecate is supposed to be the daughter of the Titans, Perses and Asteria. During the war between, I think it was the Olympians and the Titans, the Olympian gods and the Titans, Hecate chose to side with Zeus, and that is really what made Her a goddess. So, it's, it was about choices. These backstories and, and how these people lived is what created why we worship them today.

Laylla: It's an interpretation of Lilith's backstory that in a lot of cases whitewashes who She is, but at the same time, it's also trying to reclaim who She is, because these stories were told by men. In particular, Lilith was changed a lot by Aleister Crowley and Gerald Gardner. Crowley took the idea of Lilith, and he very much made her a sexual person. Uh, she was the idea of the dark feminine, this deeply sexual creature. So, it was really trying to turn her, again, into something that a man could use. So, I think the modern interpretations of trying to reclaim that are trying to see her for these qualities of, "I want to be equal and I demand it. I am who I am, but I'm going to be truthful and honest, and I'm going to take care of what I need to take care of, but I'm also going to give you the tools to take care of what you need to take care of." She's the badass that does what she wants. So, there's that whole feminist ideal that we try to see. So, she's so many different things, and she's been seen through so many different lenses, it's difficult. And I will admit that the whole sexualization part of her, turning her into a sex kitten like Aleister Crowley tried to do, deeply pisses me off. I think it disrespects her roots. I think it disrespects women. I think it, it disrespects goddesses.

Chelle: I said the same thing about Hecate, absolutely. I was just going to say, I think with Hecate, the, the story isn't as changing, I guess. With Lilith, there's a lot of different backstories, and with Hecate, there's really, really only the one backstory, which I guess makes it less complicated. But really it's about choices with with Hecate, you know, when Hades abducted Persephone, Hecate used her torch to help Demeter, but Persephone made her choice to do half the half the time in the underworld and half the time in the modern world, and Hecate decided to be her companion down there because that's the choice she made.

Laylla: And for Lilith, I think people choose Lilith now because they're trying to reclaim something. When I first discovered Lilith, it was when I was studying Kabbalah back in the '90s because that was part of what I thought I needed to do. Wicca was huge then, and there was a lot of Kabbalah in Wicca, the the Middle Pillar ceremonies. And so I started researching her from there. I did eventually leave that because the Abrahamic religions just don't resonate with me. So even that magical system wasn't exactly mine. I came back to Lilith in about the time that you found Hecate. I started working with Lilith again for a lot of the same reasons people now are looking to Lilith, and that's for sovereignty of self, I think. A lot of people who turn to Lilith are people who have had some type of abuse in their life, whether sexual abuse, child abuse, they have suffered something in their lives, and Lilith gives you the teeth to fight for yourself. She gives you the strength to stand up for yourself and to say when you don't accept something. And that's a boundary that sometimes we don't have.

Chelle: With Hecate, I think a lot of the pull to Hecate right now is because of the crossroads and the choices element. Hecate can give you a sense of being able to navigate things. As as the story of her taking Demeter into the underworld and and taking her down by torch, that can kind of at this time of year make you feel like you have a companion dealing with ancestors or dealing with spirit. You know, it's almost like someone there holding your hand. And I think that that pull is really strong because people want to feel like there's someone there kind of holding their hand while they're doing this trauma work, while they're doing this ancestral work, while they're while they're talking to spirit and and doing spirit communication. Grab onto your broomstick, witches. Back after these messages. Witches, guess what? We are coming to Salem. Laylla, tell them why we're coming.

Laylla: We have been invited by our friends at Pentagram to come down and read tarot.

Chelle: Ooh.

Laylla: So not only are we going to be visiting our favorite haunts in Salem, we're going to be slaying cards at one of our favorite shops.

Chelle: So if you happen to be in Salem October 5th, 6th, and 7th, stop on down to our absolute favorite shop, Pentagram shop. We will be there doing tarot. Come see us.

Laylla: Slots are going fast. So if you want to see us, stop in, say hi, get a selfie, we would love that. And if you'd like your cards read by Chelle or by Laylla, just give them a call, get an appointment, and we look forward to seeing you in Salem, Massachusetts.

Chelle: And to get that appointment booked, you want to give them a shout out at 978-224-2925. Give Pentagram a call, tell them you want to hook up with Laylla and Chelle.

Laylla: So check us out in Salem if you want to have a witchy good time.

Chelle: And we will be there with our witchy hats.

Laylla: I have a few of those. I wasn't planning on wearing a hat, but I guess I I will now.

And conversely for me, when I started working with Lilith, it was because I needed teeth and a backbone. I needed to be a stronger, more assertive, more powerful version of myself. So rather than have a guide or a companion, I needed a dragon. I needed a weapon. I needed to become more of a weapon. And that was very healing for me. Even her demon parts, even accepting the parts of her that were dark and difficult and learning about them and accepting them as part of her, I can understand that. That represents the trauma a mother goes through at the unexpected death of a child. She represents the trauma that people go through as children or when terrible events happen. And that is unfortunately part of life, and so that is also part of who Lilith is. So learning to accept that life is not always pretty and that there are things that we don't like and we can still like life is part of Lilith's lessons, at least for me. And I think that both of those things are needed right now. We need a dark goddess who can kick ass, who can teach us to be witches, who can light a torch and guide us through these dark times and be that powerful ally. And we also need a goddess that can teach us to bare our teeth and growl when our boundaries have been crossed and then do something about it.

Chelle: Exactly, 100%. And I think that that's the biggest draw for folks.

Laylla: Unverified personal gnosis, the UPG. I have had experiences with deity that are unverifiable and that very much helped me and helped cement my practice, and I know other people have as well.

Chelle: I think that brings up an important point that not everybody sees deity the same way. And, you know, who the hell am I to funk somebody's fun? Maybe somebody does see Lilith and Hecate prancing around in pink silk nighties in the grass with blonde flowing beautiful hair. I don't know. If that's their experience, I'm not going to I'm not going to down it. But I go back to, and I know you know this, how I've always visually seen Hecate over the years versus how sometimes the masses have.

Laylla: Part of Lilith's difficulty, I think, is that she confronts people. She makes you look at yourself. She makes you look at the hidden things, your hidden desires, your hidden senses of fear, your your sense of losing control, your hidden sources of shame, and she makes you confront them or gives you the backbone to confront them. I'm not sure.

Chelle: Like you said, she's got teeth.

Laylla: Yes, exactly. And so maybe sometimes the version of her that you see is the version of her that you need. I'm not sure. But Lilith is complex and complicated partly because she does have a bunch of different backstories. Maybe she came from Mesopotamia. Maybe she was part of the huluppu tree that Inanna tried to cut down. Maybe she's the Lilit and the Lilitu. Maybe she's the Laylla in the Arabic languages that means night. Maybe she is the Lilith of the Bible. Maybe we don't know. That's the thing. Some of these deities like Cernunnos have very fragmented histories. They have very little to go on, and what we do have is definitely been corrupted. If you look at Lilith the way Crowley looked at Lilith, it's going to be a very different version than the way a modern Jewish woman will look at the history of Lilith. But working with these deities means study. It means figuring that out. It means sitting with how you feel about these stories and these mythologies. And there are a lot of books out there that will give you tools. There's a bunch of books about about Hecate and her Deipnon and ways to worship her, her days of worship, her many names and epithets that she can be called by. And those are wonderful ways to work with her. With Lilith, you can choose to study her her Jewish roots, to study her mythologies. You can study the astrology of the Dark Moon Lilith. You can find where the Lilith is in your astrological chart. There's a lot of different ways to work with these deities and to find that energy in your life.

Chelle: We had folks ask us about different books that we might recommend. And so I want to point out this one particular book because back in the '90s, it was hard to find information. You know, we were like at the cusp of the internet. And the first book I was able to ever find on Hecate was called Hecate in Ancient Greek Religion, and it was by Robert Von Rudolf from I think 1999. But that was pretty much one of the only full books on Hecate I could find anywhere. I could find little writings here and there in some Greek manuscripts. But the first book I was ever able to really find dedicated to Hecate was Hecate in Ancient Greek Religion. And to this day, I love that book, and it is always on my recommend list. But there are tons out there now. You can Google search them. You can find them. If you are looking to start a journey with Hecate, me personally, I I think you should start with that book.

Laylla: Now, as far as Lilith goes, I definitely recommend that you start looking for books written in particular by Jewish women, and I will definitely list a couple in the show notes. You're going to find a wide variety of versions of Lilith. In particular, modern versions will run the gamut of all sorts of different things from demon and demoness to blonde sex kitten, and you'll find everything in between in the modern versions of Lilith. So I think looking for more historical texts and more accurate texts is is going to help you kind of sort how you see Lilith. But again, she's one of those deities that appears to a lot of people or appeals to a lot of people that have gone through some type of trauma because she does have a backbone. She is going to help you become that more powerful sense of you. And because of the intensity of that relationship, that's why I only worked with her very seriously for about three or four years. And she is still very much a part of my practice, but I would not say that she is my goddess or I'm a devotee of Lilith. Uh, but I did work with her for a time, and I think that tends to be pretty common. Your mileage may vary on these deities. But working with them either for a lifetime like Chelle has over decades or here and there as time is needed, all of that is very valid.

Chelle: Okay. So one of the questions I wanted to address, this is from Jess. "I feel a call to Hecate through dreams. What's the best place to start exploring that connection?" I do not want to sound like Laylla one bit. I really do not. But you're probably going to want to write this stuff down. You're going to want to wake up every morning and jot down what the dreams were, anything you remember. And then you're going to want to explore those signs, whether that's through internet research, whether that's through reading, whether that's through chatting with people. Um, but you're going to want to basically journal it and and start exploring what that all means.

Laylla: Most of the questions about Lilith that we get a lot for Hecate and Lilith and really for any dark deity, and that is, "This deity that I've been told is scary, I feel a call to, whether I want to research or I feel they're reaching out to me, and I'm afraid. How do I handle working with this deity when I'm scared?" And that's a tough one because fear can be difficult to control. Even if your rational brain tells you one thing, sometimes your body can react a different way whether we like it or not. So as much as I can tell you, "Oh, it's fine. Don't be afraid," you don't always have control over that. And I think that knowledge over something helps you to have control and helps you to control that fear. So especially if you're afraid and you still feel like you should research a deity or you still feel a call to a deity, I think you should research them. The more knowledge you have about them, their history, their backstories, how they're honored, how they're worshiped, I think that's going to help you temper and control that fear. And I also feel that deities are a part of nature. They're a part of life. Like we are a part of deity and deity is part of us. I really don't think that they have any intent to hurt us, just the same as a a tornado or an earthquake doesn't have an intent to hurt us. The more you know about it, the more prepared you are, the better off you're going to be, and the more likely you're able to harness those energies than be swept away by them.

Chelle: I agree with that 100% because I think that sometimes folks get really really scared of darker deities, and I don't think that's necessarily the approach that should be taken. Uh, another question from Candice. "After beginning to work with Hecate among sudden life changes, what suggestions do we have for working with her?" Um, we got another one from another listener saying that they started working with Hecate and their life started to kind of go into shambles with some sudden life changes. What I say to that is sometimes you get what you need when you need it, and that can come in the form of deity as well. And, you know, maybe if things are if you're having a hard time with things, whether that be trauma-related, abuse-related, as it relates to Lilith, or, you know, maybe you've got some tough choices ahead in life and, you know, you're really at a life's crossroads and Hecate shows up, you know, these are things to kind of pay to and look deeper into. So maybe depending on the circumstances of your life at that particular given moment, you're pulled or not pulled to a certain deity based on what their attributes are. You know what I'm saying?

Laylla: One of the questions that I get repeatedly about Lilith is, "How do I worship Lilith? I feel like a call to Lilith. I want to devote myself to her. What types of offerings does Lilith like?" And that one kind of threw me a little bit, and and I'll tell you why in just a second. Now, correspondences for Lilith are snakes and owls, uh, the color black and red, crystals like amber and garnet, um, herbs like datura, jasmine, patchouli, mugwort, roses, particularly dark roses, wormwood. And some people say that offerings to her could be things like absinthe, I don't know why, blood, bones, eggs, uh, mirrors, sexual fluids, snake skin, things like that. I get it. However, and here's the thing, I never thought that Lilith was the type to want things. Now, I know I tend to want to give energetic offerings anyways to deity and to ancestors. But Lilith in particular, I felt she wanted her worship to be in action. She wanted her worship to be in doing the things. And so if I was going to offer her an oil, it would be, "I'm putting this oil on myself to stand sovereign in myself, to be sexually sovereign, to be to have strength and to have power in myself." That she appreciated. Uh, or if I said, "I am going to state my boundary with this person as an offering to Lilith," that she appreciated. Actions, doing the thing, rather than offering her something. Uh, and I've seen that repeated in other people talking about their experience with Lilith as well. So try that. If Lilith is someone you want to work with and you're not sure what you want to offer her or what type of altar you want to create for her, create an altar for yourself and then do the things. And if you have to say, "I am doing this for you, Lilith. I am putting my foot down for you. I am creating this boundary for you," do that. She'll appreciate that.

Chelle: And as that relates to Hecate, you know, I can say a a similar thing. You know, obviously, her colors are black and red, the dogs, the snakes, garlic, mandrake, lavender, mugwort, you know, the moonstone, obsidian. But that's all fine and good, and I hear ya when you look that up and you read that in books. I hear that. But for me personally, I find that either leaving a food item in a crossroads or leaving something in a crossroads, whether it's a stone or a food item, maybe honey, whatever, or whatever I have when I have it, and that seems to be okay with Hecate, at least in mine and her relationship. I have left out a nug of weed. I've left out dribs of honey. I have left flowers. It's kind of whatever feels right in the moment for me. But again, that's my relationship. I'm not going on what books or or websites tell me to offer. These are just my personal offerings based on my relationship.

Laylla: And that's a really good point is that we do harp on knowledge. We do harp on learning the origins of these deities. Or like in the case of Lilith, she's kind of a new deity. She wasn't really one then, but she kind of is now. So learn as much as you can. And and then go by your UPG. You do your meditation, work with this deity, spend time with the deity, walk with this deity. You'll find how you relate to this deity the best. Chelle is not a dog person. She and Hecate do not connect on that level. They connect with keys and crossroads, you know?

Chelle: Exactly.

Laylla: And if you are a dog person, maybe you do connect with Hecate on that level. But learn what you can, and then walk with them. Experience that. Write it down, just like Chelle said. Be a journaler, just like Chelle. But write down those experiences so that you can have your personal list of correspondences, your way of speaking with this deity, because you are, in my opinion, we are ultimately just seeing one facet of the divine, one beautiful spark, one beautiful strand of what makes up the whole universe, life itself even. And sometimes we're going to see that a little differently than everybody else says depending on how we tug on those strands, I guess. You have to walk with them to know that.

Chelle: And I think that's probably to kind of wrap it all up, the best thing I can say about these two deities as well as any other deity. Your relationship is going to be your relationship, how you connect, what you connect with, and at what level is 100% individual no matter what any book or website or person says. It's between you and the deity, and that can vary experience to experience and person to person.

Laylla: And if there is any interest in a meditation on walking with these deities, let us know in the comments, and we will get one out for you guys. But right now is the between the spokes time. It is the best time to be looking up any kinds of deities. Not necessarily that Lilith and Hecate have a ton to do with Samhain. Hecate does a little bit with the Persephone myth. But now is a great time to broaden your horizons on deities. Take a look at a deity maybe you haven't considered or or study an aspect of the craft that that maybe you hadn't considered before. But we're going into the dark time, the cold time, the wet and muddy time. So finding something to study inside might be a great way to kind of keep it witchy over the cold and dark season.

Chelle: That actually sounds delightful. It makes me want to go grab a book and cuddle up. So, are you ready to read? Let's go read, Laylla.

Laylla: We will definitely do that. I think we have a pile of to-read books for our next Solarium, so we should get on that. Thank you guys so much for listening to this episode of Back on the Broomstick. Please like, subscribe, give us some reviews. We could use some new reviews. It really helps the show out and helps people to find us. We will see you next week for a Samhain-focused episode. In the meantime, be wise, be wicked...

Chelle: ...and keep it witchy.
