Laylla: Thank you all so much for your emails, your comments, and making Back on the Broomstick such a popular podcast. If you appreciate what we're doing, please give us some stars, like, review, send us an email. It really helps the show out, and it makes the two of us really happy. Thank you all so much. Blessed be.

Chelle: Welcome to Back on the Broomstick, a modern witches' spoken word grimoire, where two witchy friends from way back are reconnecting to their pagan roots after a long period of mundanity.

Laylla: We're re-walking the path of the wise and trying out all the latest spells, rituals, and magical theory in today's witchcraft and pagan practices.

Chelle: So grab your wand and your incense, your cauldron and your crystals, and join us as we get back on the broomstick.

Laylla: Hi, and welcome to episode 19 of Back on the Broomstick. I'm Laylla.

Chelle: And I'm Chelle, and we're getting witchy today with hexes and curses.

Laylla: Ooh, and a little bit of protection, too. Don't forget that side of it.

Chelle: That's not the fun part.

Laylla: Hey, you're talking to the little kid who used to make, uh, curse potions in her backyard, so. Well, I know the fun part.

Chelle: I'd hate to be any ex of mine if we're talking about curses. I had a jar once and it, it was like a ceramic or maybe it was pottery jar, and it had a little plaque on it and it said, "Hexes on exes."

Laylla: Ooh, sometimes you got to put an ex in a jar. That's all I'm saying.

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: Or the freezer, one of the other.

Chelle: The best part is when you put them all in the jar together.

Laylla: You just, you go in the jar, and you go in the jar, and you go in the jar. Yeah.

Chelle: What is with the popularity of hexes and curses right now? Cuz I feel like it's super popular.

Laylla: It is. I think every time I open any type of social media app, Instagram, Pinterest, TikTok, all I'm seeing is people talking about hexes, how to get rid of the evil eye, how to get rid of a curse, people talking about how they feel like they've had generational curses placed upon their family. I think a little bit of that is overexaggeration, but most curses we think are put on yourself.

Chelle: Absolutely. Here's the thing with, with the whole protection and, and hexing and cursed thing. I feel like every time I get on Facebook or the TikTok, as I like to call it, everybody and their brother feels like they've been cursed, they've been hexed. I need to be protected from this person and that person. I go through my Facebook feed and I feel like 80% of what I'm looking at is hexed and cursed people. When you first come into witchcraft, cuz I'm not saying there wasn't a point in my life where I didn't think that too, but I think when you first come into witchcraft, you're going one way or the other. I want every love spell on the planet, or somebody has cursed me.

Laylla: Or some of us go down a rabbit hole where we need to read every book ever written, but yeah. That is very true.

Chelle: And I think some people that, and, and I am not bad, I'm not down on anybody, but I just feel sometimes when you make bad choices, you try to blame it on a curse.

Laylla: I'm going to start right off and say I think 90% of the time when someone thinks they've been cursed or hexed, it's really just a run of bad luck, or you've done it to yourself. Most of the time it's, it's negative self-talk, or you've, you know, you've perpetuated these negative things in your life, and that's where your quote-unquote hex is coming from, not an actual person.

Chelle: There's another option. There, there is another option here, my friend. It is called the ugly person that we never speak of, karma.

Laylla: There is that, too, and again, that is another bed that we have made ourselves, usually.

Chelle: And I'm not saying that nobody's ever been hexed or cursed, but I just think it's almost like a go-to thought or a go-to phrase. Oh, you know, I got shit on today by a bird. I must be cursed. No, you were walking under a tree with a nest in it. I don't know what to tell you. But again, I'm not saying it hasn't happened, and, you know, I've put people in bottles before and put them in the freezer, not going to lie. I just think the majority of people, especially baby witches, just run right to the, "I'm cursed, I'm hexed, I have like a eight-generation curse." I don't want to say I kind of get a chuckle at, but I kind of get a chuckle at because the eight-generation curses are so few and far between, my friends. I promise it's probably not you.

Laylla: The energy required to sustain something like that is not for the lighthearted because, you know, you can't just do it because someone was cranky one day. These are serious workings.

Chelle: But they saw it on Practical Magic. That's the problem.

Laylla: But one of the things that we should all do is doing protection spells and protection magic because while most of the time someone isn't hexing you on purpose, that doesn't mean that when your coworker is giving you the stink eye or when your relative is talking shit behind your back, that type of negative energy does add up, and that type of negative energy can be a drain.

Chelle: Or if you were the guy doing 55 on the Mass Pike in front of me last night, you might have got cursed. I was pissed, can't lie. But I think the important piece to all of this is always going to be cleanse yourself, protect yourself. You know, there's been times where I've had to protect myself from myself, no lie. Doing a good protection and cleansing is a good habit to get into, if for nothing else, practice. It teaches you kind of that flow of getting yourself in a good place.

Laylla: That is exactly where I wanted to go with that part. I think we're our own worst enemies, and I think that we a lot of times curse ourselves. And doing a daily protection type ritual or protection and cleansing can help you to not only get rid of the stink eye from your coworker, but also the negative self-talk and the negative energy that you have been feeding into in your own brain.

Chelle: Right, right. I think people get so worried about what other people are projecting at them that they create it themselves. The minute you learn that there is such a thing as hexing and cursing, you're like, "Oh my god, that must be happening to me." And, you know, "My mother-in-law, she's mean to me. She must be cursing and hexing me." No, she probably just doesn't like you. It could be that simple.

Laylla: It's funny that you said that because I recently was reading a book. It's called Protection and Reversal Magic: A Witch's Defense Manual. It was written by Jason Miller. And in one of the chapters, he's talking about a person that he knew who had been having a problem with their neighbor, and she asked her teacher what she should do. And the teacher said she should make a poppet, a doll that looked like the neighbor, blindfold it, tie it up, and nail it to the tree in her front yard facing the neighbor's house.

Chelle: Sounds like she's the one doing the cursing.

Laylla: Right? And her friend was like, "Oh, wow. Why would I do that? I don't want to hurt him. What's going to happen?" And her teacher said, "Nothing, but it's going to scare the crap out of him, and he'll do the cursing himself."

Chelle: Oh my god.

Laylla: Most of the time you don't have to curse someone. People who are guilty will curse themselves if you give them reason to believe that they've been cursed by you or someone else. And unfortunately, people who have anxiety or whose brains, like mine, just won't shut up are also really good at cursing ourselves. So because of that, I really want to talk about protection magic. You know, because I, I think we need protection, not necessarily because someone's attacking us, but because we're attacking us. We've got some negative self-thoughts going on. We've got a lot of stress with work, with home life, with family going on. And so sometimes we need to cleanse and protect ourselves to get rid of that buildup.

Chelle: Not to mention, sometimes you just need to protect yourself from the greater world. You know, no matter where you are, listeners, all the corners of the world, wherever you are, life is a little volatile right now. Society's a little off-kilter as a whole, and, and that's no matter where you are, you know, whether it's the mass shootings or the natural disasters, the fires up in Canada, like, there's just a lot of stuff going on that's just, just negative, I feel like. There's just a doom and gloom over Earth right now, and it, sometimes it can be hard to suck yourself out of that negativity.

Laylla: Everything is heavy right now. And while it might not be directed at me or you specifically,

Chelle: It's just in the air.

Laylla: It's in the air, and it feels like it. It's still an attack. It's still something that's going to weigh you down. And so there's a lot of things that I'm trying to incorporate into my daily practice, a, a meditation or a small cleansing, something to help refresh and purify myself in the morning. Um, and then later in the day, kind of go back through, do a small meditation, and maybe reinforce some wards. I've been feeling run down. I've been feeling like I have a run of bad luck. You know, I've gone through everything in my head. I'm like, "Am I being hexed? Is there something negative? Is Mercury in retrograde again?" And, you know, I go through all these things, and no, it's, it's just things are kind of shitty right now. But a protection's still going to help. It's still going to cleanse all that negativity off of you and, and let you kind of start fresh and give you better energy.

Chelle: And, you know, we went back, Laylla's way better at this than I am, but, um, several episodes back, we did a episode on egg cleansing, and that is an easy way, relatively easy way, and you can kind of refer back to that episode where we talk about the, the details of how to do that. But these don't need to be big, extravagant, full-on high magic rituals, you know. That was the first time I had done a quote-unquote public egg cleanse, and, hey, I recommend it.

Laylla: Yes, an egg cleanse is definitely a great way, something to do monthly or regularly in your practice. You can also just do cleanses in the morning, you know, say you get up and make your tea. You can infuse your tea with a little bit of energy to start your day and kind of bring that positivity.

Chelle: What I've always done, kind of more as far as a daily thing, like, you know, I did the egg cleanse, we've done cleansing rituals, we've done cleansing meditations, but as far as like a on the daily thing, I'm kind of more of a talisman person. Probably as long as you've known me up until like six months ago, I have always, as you have, worn a pentacle, always, always, always. But recently, I found this awesome like moon phase one. I am more of that talisman person. Like, I have, I have a pentacle ring on, so yeah, I'm not wearing a, a pentacle necklace right now, but I have a pentacle ring on. I've been always more of, as far as a daily thing, a talisman person.

Laylla: Yes.

Chelle: That is just as, as effective, and, you know, they get charged in, you know, charged in the moon or, or cleansed in water as any other tool may be, but that's kind of more my jam because it's kind of a quick, easy thing that fits my lifestyle as opposed to a 20-minute meditation before I'm half hour late for work, you know.

Laylla: Right, right. Jewelry, because it's metal and gemstones very often, it holds energy really, really well. So if you're going to do a ritual or a spell where you charge that jewelry to protect you and put those energies into it, you can then just do that monthly and just recharge that jewelry. I've also seen people take cute little charms, like you can get at the craft store or at your local pagan shop, charge those charms, and then put them on a safety pin and pin it to your pocket or pin it inside your purse.

Chelle: Oh, I can remember when we were kids, we'd do safety pins on our shoes, on our sneaker laces. You could do that.

Laylla: Yeah, you could do that. Make it, uh, make it cute, something like that. But charms are a great way to carry a protection around with you, something to remind you of the magic that you've done.

Chelle: And also just quick, um, because you had mentioned jewelry, too, not that this is necessarily a protection thing, but there was a point not too long ago where I felt like I had some negative energies from other folks in my household. I actually, uh, for last few months, to kind of repel negativity, same along the same lines as protection, but to repel negativity, um, I also actually wear a hematite ring. So I have my pentacle ring for protection, and I have a hematite ring to kind of repel that negativity. So I kind of keep my personal space with the two-prong, the repel and the protect.

Laylla: And I think you do need to come at this from multiple ways. I like to do things in multiples of three. So if I'm wearing a charm or jewelry, I like to have three different pieces, or, you know, maybe five different pieces. I am personally, I'm big on protecting my space. I like to have my house protected. Any place I'm staying in, I like to go through and do a full cleansing and banishing, and then I'll seal it, and then I like to fill it with my own personal protective energy and my personal energy for my space. And the way that I like to do that, we did this, I think, together in an apartment that you've moved into, where we'd go around on each window and chalk a pentagram or chalk a protective rune.

Chelle: Yep.

Laylla: Each doorway, each window, each entrance to the home.

Chelle: All our mirrors. I think we even did the faucets because, folks, just so you know, faucets are an entranceway for stuff to get in your house, just like it is water.

Laylla: Yep, energy outlets, electrical outlets, you can do all of those if you'd like.

Chelle: You know how many times I've saged my laptop?

Laylla: Yeah, pretty much every time I get off social media, I think I need to sage my laptop.

Chelle: Right, right.

Laylla: Going through your home and protecting it regularly, like on a monthly basis, is a really, really good idea.

Chelle: There's lots of ways you can do it, and I, as much as I, I love the, the traditional go-to sage, I love sage in my house, sage in all my doorways, sage in, you know, ceiling and everything with that. But that's not always an option, and in my current situation, I can't just be burning sage, like, mega smoke at where I live. So I have to improvise. So what I do here is I do moon water. I trace all my outlets, all my doors, all my windows, all my mirrors, my faucets, my, my everything with moon water because I can't be smoking up a place that I don't own 100%. So you got to find sometimes alternatives. Don't pull a Laylla and use salt because here's why. Laylla, please tell people why they shouldn't use salt in the home.

Laylla: Well, inside your home, I don't see why not.

Chelle: Yeah, that's what you tell the roofers.

Laylla: Yes, I did used to make circles of salt outside on a tar roof, and the salt then baked into the tar roof and made a permanent white circle that was very, very visible to anyone who wanted to look. And also outside the home, salt will cause, uh, plants to die, so you don't really want to put that out there.

Chelle: But you don't want to put salt somewhere where it's going to eat away at the surface of your floors or rugs, um, or where animals are going to eat it because you actually can kill your animal if they eat too much salt. So keep that in mind, folks. The moon water, great. The sage, sage is my go-to if that is an option smoke-wise.

Laylla: I like to use all the elements when I'm cleansing my house. So I usually use some type of cinnamon. Uh, I, I like to burn cinnamon because it's really good for banishing. Uh, a sage can be used as well, some type of pine, any scent that you enjoy, actually, is great to kind of cleanse and smoke your home. Then for fire, a simple candle, maybe a red stone. For water, I like to use moon water with a sprig of pine because pine is also very protective and cleansing.

Chelle: Now, now do you put the sprig of pine in the water and then you're dipping in the water, or do you take the sprig and use the sprig to kind of flick it all over like a wand?

Laylla: Exactly. Dip the sprig of pine in the moon water and kind of splash it around your home and the areas that you want to protect. And then for earth, I use chalk. And if you want to be super sneaky, you can get chalk in the different colors of your paint, you know, and just mark a chalk sigil, pentacle, or rune on all your different entrances. So now you've used all the different elements to protect your home.

Chelle: Yeah, actually, I remember when we did that in, in my old apartment, it was very convenient because I had like these pure white walls with pure white woodwork, so the white chalk, you couldn't even tell.

Laylla: You know, you've actually reminded me of another thing that's kind of an easy, secret way to do protections on yourself is to use your perfume. If you use perfume or oil, even your makeup, as you're doing your makeup, you can draw sigils on your face or on your arm in makeup that you then, you know, blend into your skin. You can do it in an oil or your favorite perfume. You can do it in sunscreen before you rub it onto your arm or onto your body.

Chelle: Or lotion or whatever.

Laylla: Lotion, yeah, exactly. It's a way to inscribe it on yourself to bring that protection to you personally that other people can't see. Just another sneaky way to kind of get a protection sigil in there. Now, I do want to just transition real quick back to the protection/repel/return to sender.

Laylla: Ooh, I've got a return to sender spell for you, Chelle.

Chelle: I, you know, I don't know. Maybe it's because my parents liked Elvis or something, but I always, as soon as people are like, "I just want to just, just give them back what they deserve," I'm like, "Return to sender, address unknown." And this is where mirrors come into play. I love mirrors.

Laylla: Yes, mirror magic can be very powerful. I, I love mirror magic as well. Now, a return to sender spell is basically, it's an "I'm rubber, you're glue" kind of thing. Whatever energy someone is sending towards you,

Chelle: Bounces off me and sticks on you.

Laylla: Exactly. So you're not actually doing negative magic against them. You're basically protecting yourself, reflecting it back to the person who's causing it, and making them feel the results of their own energy, usually with a little extra added in.

Chelle: So it's not that you're doing anything. You're just, "Sorry, I don't live here. Send back to the originator." So if it sucks, think of it this way. Hey, that's what they sent out.

Laylla: That's right. That's their own karma. That's their own actions. And if they stop, they won't get anything bad. But if they continue, it keeps being bad. Several popular return to sender spells will usually involve, um, I've seen them involve mirrors. I've also seen them involve circles of salt to kind of make a ring around that person so that anything that they send out reflects back on the ring of salt. Sometimes people will use knot magic to bind that person as you tie knots in a string, think of that person being bound and their actions being bound away from you.

Chelle: Or use the, the freezer magic. You put them in a little ziplock baggie and freeze them.

Laylla: But some other herbs I like for return to sender, um, I like garlic because that kind of pushes it back to the person. Cloves are really good, especially if someone's gossiping about you or if they're saying a lot of shit, because cloves will also put that back on them.

Chelle: Don't say that. There's going to be a clove shortage in America now. Everybody's always talking shit.

Chelle: Too much people talking shit.

Laylla: There's blackberry thorns are great for protection, or rose thorns sometimes, especially if it's an ex-lover.

Chelle: I'm a fan of valerian.

Laylla: Oh, that's a good one. That's definitely a good one. I'm also a fan of putting in a little bit of pepper flakes. Put in some red pepper flakes because you want this lesson to sting a little bit when it slaps them back.

Chelle: Yeah, you don't want to just hand it back, you know, just "Here, here you go. Here's your bullshit." You want to kind of have a kick in the ass with it.

Laylla: Yeah, you want them to learn their lesson, you know. Be the, uh, dealer of karma, if you will.

Chelle: And, you know, very rarely have I ever projected something not so kind and nice on someone. I save that for special occasions. But return to sender is a favorite of mine. It's like, you know, if that's the way you want to be, here. Here, let me mirror it right back at you. And and as far as in a home and how you kind of how we've equated that to protection, because you've also participated in this, I think probably in the same apartment. We've totally mirrored my apartment in the past. We've mirrored our homes. So anything coming at our whole not just us as a person, but anything coming at our home got mirrored back to sender. So you can just you can take that concept and and protect your home or, you know, your space or whatever the case may be.

Laylla: I absolutely loved that ritual. That was phenomenal. Unfortunately, that was a time when there were some people that had some negative thoughts and feelings towards us, towards you and your family in particular. And when we came up with the idea to make a permanent mirrored copy of our home and direct any negative energy to this fake copy, I love it. I love it. It was such a powerful, such a good spell, such an interesting way to do the mirror spell.

Chelle: And I'd like to put in a side note, very effective.

Laylla: Very It worked phenomenally.

Chelle: There's plenty of options on on protecting yourself, and it can be as simple as if you get if you've done a lot of protection meditations, you can get to a point where it's almost like you snap a finger and you're protected. Like maybe you're in a a weird social situation and you almost need like instant protection. Sometimes and and that's why you want to make sure you have a couple of different options. And meditation is one of them because when you're not home and you are out and about, it's almost like think of Star Trek, shields up, you know what I mean?

Laylla: Yes, and I I love my bubble. I I tend to bubble myself. I I've talked before about doing bubble magic where I project the image of a think Glinda the Good Witch of the North, you know, that big pink bubble.

Chelle: It looks like a big like Laylla in a soap bubble.

Laylla: Laylla in a soap bubble. And my meditation for protecting myself starts with building this bubble at my core, expanding it out to surround me completely so that I'm floating within it. And then I imagine a big sledgehammer from outside banging against the side of that bubble.

Chelle: To no avail.

Laylla: But if it shatters, I know that I haven't done the work properly and I have to rebuild it. And I keep doing that until it does not shatter. And that's part of what I've gotten back into as a daily practice to try and build back up that ability to in an instant bring up a psychic protective shield.

Chelle: Right. So that when you're in a situation, you can you can pull a Captain Kirk and be like, "Shields up."

Laylla: Yeah, and just pull out that Glinda pink bubble and be completely in a better space and be safe from any negative energies.

Chelle: And honestly, you know, I I've had handfuls of of baby witches say, "Where should I start?" Start with learning how to protect yourself. Step one. If you really want to know, if you're confused and there's, you know, there's elements and deities and rituals and spells, where do I start? Start with protection. Start with that bubble because you're going to be in situations whether you're Christian or pagan or or or Jewish, whatever the case may be, atheist, you believe in nothing, whatever. There's going to be situations where you need to kind of like shield up.

Laylla: No matter who you are, we've all walked into a room and felt the negative vibe. We've all stumbled upon a conversation and are like, "Oh, what the fuck just happened here?" because you can feel that negative energy in the air. And again, that's not intentional. That's not towards you, but you're going to gather a lot of that ick. You're going to kind of have it on you. And so learning how to push that off and create a clean, positive space is pretty important.

Chelle: You know, I've had in in my day job, I can't wait until this is my day job, but my day job is in human services. And, you know, I have over the years, over the last couple of decades, gotten myself it's almost like I don't even think about it. Like, the ride to work is like how I leave the house and how I walk in the door at work. I don't want to say it's like two different people, but like, I almost subconsciously build that bubble on the way to work because when you do work with the public in person all day, you know, you kind of need to shield yourself from stuff. I can only be so helpful and empathetic before it starts affecting me as a person. So I need to make sure that that the public that I'm dealing with, their emotions and and their sometimes negativity and and what have you that comes with what I do doesn't get kind of soaked into me.

Laylla: Yeah. And and building that work persona is a type of shield in and of itself. And then on top of that, you know, you you put on your work armor, your, you know, your work clothes, and then you put on that hematite ring and your pentacle ring. And we're going to, I think, for an episode coming up, we're going to try veiling where we wear a a veil on the top of our head or some type of jewelry on our head to protect that type of energy. You do these things to protect yourself, and you can find that your sense of well-being, your sense of peace and and inner tranquility can start to increase.

Chelle: And honestly, it can be as simple as it just makes your mental health a little bit better.

Laylla: Exactly. Exactly. Finding that space or finding that way to protect yourself really does help. It really does help you to get through the day.

Chelle: And I think the reason I wanted to bring up the work thing is because, you know, we kind of started this off with hexes and curses, but I think we really need to emphasize the fact that it behooves you to cleanse and protect even if everything is sunshine and roses. Like, this isn't just when you feel like someone's coming at you. Like, you should be learning and practicing and and implementing cleansing and protection regularly, even if it's, like I said, just the energy from we're in a weird world right now, folks, you know?

Laylla: Right. You don't just put locks on your door when you're being robbed. You put the locks on your door to make sure you don't get robbed.

Chelle: To prevent you from being robbed.

Laylla: And so good protection, particularly around your space, around yourself, around your car, around your office, having wards and protections there is a good idea. Even if, especially if things are going sunshiny and well, you can you can put those wards in place while things are going good, and that can make them more powerful so that when things are going badly, you don't have to worry about warding your house. You can worry about taking care of yourself and and your family.

Chelle: Are you talk Are you talking about those two iron coffin nails I have in my car, by chance?

Laylla: Iron coffin nails are phenomenal protection. You can even make jewelry out of them.

Chelle: If you feel like you could be in a situation where someone's going to be coming at you, wouldn't you want to already have the knowledge and the wherewithal to to shield up prior? So, you know, you want to get in the habit of it. So if, in the event something were to be projected at you, you're good. Like Laylla said, "I'm rubber, you're glue. What bounces off me sticks on you," instead of, "Oh my god, I'm cursed. What do I do?" You're just like, "Hey, play your games. I ain't interested in that." So these are preemptive. It's like going to the dentist and getting cleanings before the cavity.

Laylla: Yes, exactly. Now, the very first type of protection thing I was taught, you know, when I first found witchcraft and started seeking out other witches and people who had knowledge, I did find a couple other groups and and a couple other covens, and I was introduced to the concept of witch bottles.

Chelle: Oh, what's that? Talk to me.

Laylla: A witch bottle A witch bottle is really just the original spell bottle. We have kind of expanded a witch bottle to be so many more different types of spells. But witch bottles go back to

Chelle: They do also, right, another thing that's popular right now that's the same concept, they call witch balls. Um, they're almost like a clear ornament ball um that you can hang. Yeah.

Laylla: Yep, same thing. Witch bottle, witch ball, spell bottle, spell jars, all the same thing. The idea is

Chelle: A container that you dump a bunch of shit in.

Laylla: Yes. And witch bottles in particular are not the pretty bottles that you see today. A witch bottle is actually meant to be ugly. And the ones that they have found from the 17th century are

Chelle: Rusty shit.

Laylla: Yes. So you take a a container, and in it you put in rusty nails, pins, knives, razor blades.

Chelle: Sometimes they'd actually urinate in the in the jar as well.

Laylla: Almost always they would urinate in the jar. And in it, you would put the urine of the person who's being attacked. And then what you also put in is broken glass, broken pieces of mirror. Maybe you put in some rue or bay, other, you know, protective herbs into it. And then you'd seal it up with black wax, and you would bury it, usually where someone would walk. So like the entrance to your home or somewhere where someone would walk over it to get to your house. And it would serve two purposes. One, the witch would not be able to enter your home. And two, if the witch sent their energy to your home, they would be attracted to the urine in the jar as a taglock of the person that they're looking for. And they would go to that urine, and then the broken glass and the broken mirrors and the iron would trap them in the jar. And so they wouldn't be able to cause any trouble to that person or to your home. Again, not very pretty. And this jar that they found, I believe it was in 2004, was dated to the 17th century, and it had one of those like needles down into it to get out some of the liquid, and it actually was urine of someone who smoked cigarettes. And they also found traces of brimstone in the jar. And from X-raying

Chelle: Urine and brimstone, damn.

Laylla: Right? So they also, from X-raying it, they saw that it had these bent and broken pins and nails in it because the idea is you're killing the iron. You're killing the pin or the nail by breaking it.

Chelle: You're killing their spell.

Laylla: And what that does is it now releases the spirit of that thing to attack the person that is sending the negative energy to you. And the broken glass and the broken mirrors are all these fragmented surfaces that keep reflecting their energy back to them and preventing them from harming you. So that's how I was introduced to a protective bottle. And you're supposed to make this bottle and bury it or hide it somewhere in your house, and then you should renew that regularly.

Chelle: Now, how I was kind of introduced to it was kind of and, you know, we've we've talked about my my love of certain aspects millions of times, protection sachets. You know, again, I'm I'm the herb lady here, so it was like little sachets full of um loose incense, basically, protection herbs mixed together. And then that kind of turned into, you know, I I got into all the herbs and the incense. So a lot of my protection in the beginning was with herbs and incense and either in burning or sachet form. You know, sachets in my pillowcases, you know, sachets in my car, all over, you know, in my windowsills. I had sachets in my kids' rooms, you know. So it was more how I was kind of introduced to it was more on a herbal level, utilizing herbs.

Laylla: I love those sachets because, first of all, the herbs, the smell of it is a reminder, a very easy reminder of that spell or doing that ritual.

Chelle: And you just renew it once that smell starts to fade.

Laylla: Exactly. And into that bag, into that sachet, you can put a charm that you have imbued with energy. You can put a crystal.

Chelle: What I would actually do is I would put all the herbs in the sachet, and then on the the string or the the ribbon that it would tie shut, that's where I would put the charms is on that as I was sealing it with the ribbon or the the string.

Laylla: Yep, and that's another level. So now you can do all these different levels, different levels of protection in your home. Some that you might charge monthly. Maybe you put crystals or regular stones around your home to protect it, and you charge those once a month. And you replace your sachets that you have hanging in different places, you know, once every every holiday or

Chelle: Do you know how weird I have looked on occasion walking out of my apartment at like 12:30, 1:00 in the morning with like four bags of shit? Neighbors are probably looking at me like, "What the heck's she doing?" And I'm just laying stuff out in the yard. "Oh, don't mind me, just charging stuff under the moon. Thanks. Look away."

Laylla: It's probably easier to do that in Salem, Massachusetts, than it is in most towns.

Chelle: Well, yes, but in upstate New York, it was kind of frowned upon. But, you know, put stuff in your windowsill or if you've got a small table that you can put in front of an open window and charge it under the moon. Actually, I've been recently charging things in the sun.

Laylla: It's a perfect time of year to charge them in the sun.

Chelle: Most people think that you can only charge and and do things like that under the moon. Oh no, my friends. You can charge in the sun, too. Different energy, so know know, you know, know what energy you're you're pulling in or taking away. But yeah, I mean, another good go-to is um I'm a sage lover when I have the ability. I'll sage thing I will sage things to death. I love sage. You know, just just wand over things, and you can kind of do that.

Laylla: Now, we've talked about passive ways to protect yourself and to protect your space. There are also a few active ways. When you know specifically someone's being an asshole, and you know exactly who that person is, you can do a return to sender, but sometimes you might want to do a little bit more.

Chelle: Don't fuck with me. The the "don't fuck with me" ones.

Laylla: There are the "don't fuck with me" ones. And I actually found in an old Book of Shadows a uh like a chant that I did as part of a "don't fuck with me" spell. So you ready for this, Shel?

Chelle: I want to hear this chant because I'm probably going to remember it and giggle my face off.

Laylla: Now, keep in mind, I prefer chants that rhyme and that are simple. Our subconscious likes them, makes it easy, and I find that it makes it a little more powerful. So, this is from my old Book of Shadows. It goes, "You're not worth my time and now we're through. What you sent to me is now sent to you. Buckle up, bitch, it's about to get rough. Karma is here and we're calling your bluff. Fuck off, stay gone, keep your head down, you'll be fine. Send more shit my way and justice will be mine."

Chelle: And can I just say, folks, all you guys out there listening, I know who that was written for, and it worked. It worked. It worked.

Laylla: Yeah, yeah. They didn't keep their head down, unfortunately for them. That's the thing with this particular type of spell, it leans a little bit more towards the return to sender with a kick to it.

Chelle: That that kind of makes me want to point something out because because I knew the person in the situation. Everybody always I see a lot of this in some of these newbie Facebook groups I I'm on. "Can someone write me a spell for this? Can someone write me a spell for that?" Folks, for the love of glory, you are going to come up with something more potent yourself than any other Facebook friend, author of a book, Pinterest post, whatever the case may be.

Laylla: Or reach it.

Chelle: It may not sound like Shakespeare, but it's your intent. So, you know, Laylla gives off this cute little chant. It might not work as good for you because your intent to who you're directing it to is significantly different than Laylla's intent was when she created that for the person she did.

Laylla: Right.

Chelle: So, even if you don't think you're a word wizard, you are when it comes to spells and magic.

Laylla: Yes, and exactly like Shel said, anything that you write, even if you find something in a book or online or use ChatGPT, anything that you find, rewrite it, rework it, put your own words in there. Keep it simple.

Chelle: And it doesn't have to rhyme. Laylla's just OCD.

Laylla: I am. But I do find that very simple rhyming couplets are good for your subconscious. Your subconscious likes to keep things simple and repetitive. It likes patterns. And so if you can keep your spells simple like that, it really helps your brain to latch onto that energy. You might even find yourself repeating that line over and over in your head when that negative energy is kind of being sent to you and realize that your subconscious is warding you and putting that spell back up because it was so easy and kind of got into your brain. Um, but yeah, like just do it. Do it yourself. Put your own energy in there.

Chelle: Instead of instead of asking people on Facebook or or any of the other socials to write it for you, you might get better responses if you ask, "Could you give me a rough outline that I could rework in my own wording?"

Laylla: Oh, that's a great way to do it. That's a great way to do it.

Chelle: Because you might get folks that might be more apt to help you if you ask for assistance instead of something done completely for you. And the magic of you contributing or doing it yourself is going to be a thousand times more effective.

Laylla: And I'm going to tell you a secret. This is something that all high priestesses, high priests know.

Chelle: Shh, everybody don't tell anybody. This is a secret. Shh, shh, shh.

Laylla: This is just for all you witches. Magic is easy. It's simple. Most of it is sympathetic, like for like. You know what you're doing. If you want to send something back to someone and make it sting, put some pepper in there. Put some nettles in there. You know, if you want to send something to someone and have it be sweet, put some sugar in there, some nice smelling flowers. Listen to your subconscious. Listen to what feels right for you and just do it. Do your research.

Chelle: Books are great, but but your inner self is greater than any book you're going to buy. Use a book as a guide, and your intuition is like law of the land.

Laylla: Yep. And you'll probably find as you're writing your own spells and doing more research, you'll be like, "Wow, I just learned about this great way to do a freezer spell, and I wrote that myself six months ago thinking I was making it up," because you'll realize you have tapped into this universal knowledge, these archetypes that we all understand on a very basic level. So let's talk freezer spells.

Chelle: All right. This is this is I love this. And, you know, it's funny because I know a lot about them, but I've never actually done one other than one time. One time I had to. And actually, I think you kind of had to walk me through it, let's be real.

Laylla: Yeah.

Chelle: Um, so I'm actually going to let you kind of delve into the the who, what, when, where, and whys because you're a little more experienced with putting people out in the cold.

Laylla: Put the people in the freezer. So a freezer spell is very similar to a return to sender spell. It's basically a freezer spell freezes someone in their tracks. It stops them right where they are at. So if you've got someone, and I've done this for a coworker and for an ex, but if you've got someone who won't leave you alone, who's constantly pestering you, who's constantly messing up your your energy, your chi, whatever, you've tried all the conventional methods, do a freezer spell. Super, super simple. Take a Ziploc baggie, a pen and a marker. Shel likes bay leaves. You don't have to use paper. You can do a bay leaf.

Chelle: I'm a bay leaf fan. But you could use you could use you could use anything. You could use a piece of paper, a piece of napkin, a piece of cardboard, whatever.

Laylla: Anything. Write that person's name on your paper. And you can also write more. You could be you could write, "Fuck off, Becky. Don't talk to me again." You could write whatever you want to on there.

Chelle: Becky with the good hair.

Laylla: That's right.

Chelle: Hello, way from my man. Anyway.

Laylla: So, write that person's name on there, write why you want them to stop. If you want to, you could even sprinkle in some herbs, some black salt for warning. You could, you know, whatever you want. But you could just keep it simple with their name and water in the Ziploc. And then, as you're writing their name down and you're putting the little bit of water in this Ziploc, imagine that person being frozen in place, being frozen out of your life, being frozen away from you, unable to move towards you or to put any type of energy towards you in any way. They're completely blocked and frozen.

Chelle: It's like a 100% block kind of thing.

Laylla: Put all that energy into it and then put it in the literal freezer and then leave it there.

Chelle: But tell them the caveat of it, like say if your power goes out.

Laylla: Yeah, if it melts, they're unfrozen.

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: And a lot of times, there's usually a boomerang reaction, I've found, if you melt it. Once the spell has run its course, hopefully before your power goes out and it unfreezes, you can take it out and let it thaw out and then release it in running water, I like a toilet, or you can toss it in your garbage and just get it out of your house.

Chelle: Once it's run its course, what's that mean? They stop talking to you? Like, what, what?

Laylla: You'll usually know, um, if the spell has worked, this person should stop talking to you and stop bothering you. And that could happen in numerous ways. It'll either do one of two things. It'll either stop working, in which case you'll have to do maybe a more potent spell, or it'll work so well that eventually you'll feel like you yourself are able to let the situation go, that you are over this situation, over this person, and at peace with the situation and because now they're gone.

Chelle: Just don't freeze out someone that you don't really want to freeze out. You know, careful what you wish for, you just might get it.

Laylla: That's right. This one is, is reversible. You can then pull it out and either again let them go permanently by releasing it into running water or into the garbage, or you can thaw it out and just say, "You know, I'm open to renewing this relationship," or, "I'm open to thawing out this situation." You know, you can do either one.

Chelle: If I was looking to freeze you out permanently, if my power went out, I'd burn the bay leaf. Done. Burn that bridge. Burn that bridge.

Laylla: There you go. That takes it from a temporary as long as you need it to spell to an immediately you're gone. And, and that works too. Some people you need to do that. And sometimes you might need to take a little bit of time with a freezer spell before you know if you want to burn them out completely or not. You just need things to cool down for a while.

Chelle: But I think wrapping up here, the biggest, the biggest takeaway we want everybody to know is practice protection and cleansing yourself because no matter where you are, what you do, where you go, no matter if you're new, been doing this a while, or are a seasoned vet, everybody needs protection and cleansing, if for nothing else, the outside world.

Laylla: Yeah, we all, walking through this world, we gather a lot of negativity. Most of it's not directed at us, it's just the kind of way things are.

Chelle: It sticks. And, and I also want to say that for anyone out there who thinks that they're cursed or hexed, I would definitely say you're probably not. So take a deep breath and then practice some cleansing and some protection.

Laylla: And if you're doing your daily cleansing and protection spells, you'll know if it's just the detritus of a, a difficult life or if it's actually something that might be coming from someone. You know, maybe you've got a cranky ex or maybe your ex has a cranky new girlfriend, I don't know.

Chelle: Or maybe you're super, super sensitive and super, um, empathetic and you're just dealing with a rotten human being.

Laylla: Yeah, so definitely I think a, a daily practice is a really good idea and that will help you to determine if it's just regular daily yucky crap or if you're actually being hexed. And if you have been hexed, you now have the tools to deal with it.

Chelle: And if you'd like to converse further, uh, about putting hexes on exes, email us at backonthebroomstick@gmail.com. Don't we have a fiery butthole curse floating around there on YouTube somewhere?

Laylla: We do, we do. And, uh, maybe if, if, if you're all good, we'll, we'll give you that. We'll find it. We'll find it. So, um, take care of yourself. Make sure that you're not cursing yourself by accident. Be good to yourself. Love yourself.

Chelle: Take care of yourself and take care of others.

Laylla: There you go. And, uh, we will see you next week on Back on the Broomstick.

Chelle: Keep it witchy.
