Laylla: It's witchcraft. Hey, it's 4:20 a.m. Hi, and welcome to episode 21 of the Stoned Witches Hour. Today, we welcome Chelle back with some spooky stories. I'm going to be talking about the Keddie murders, a little bit of true crime, so grab your pot, grab your teddy bear, grab your stuff, grab your weed, grab your stash. And Chelle, welcome back, Chelle, will be talking—

Chelle: We're back.

Laylla: We'll be talking about the Danvers State Hospital. Welcome to the Stoned Witches Hour, I'm Laylla.

Chelle: And I'm high, and I'm back, and I'm Chelle, and I missed you all.

Laylla: Yay, welcome, welcome back, Chelle. We're so glad you're here.

Chelle: I I I I was away. For all of our listeners out there, I became a grandma. You know, hard hard fact to believe. You you'd think I was too young.

Laylla: Welcome to the world. Welcome to the world.

Chelle: I have a I have a grandson now. His name is Morgan. Um we won't divulge any more than that, but oh my god. I you know, this kid, it it is better than having kids because you you get to like walk away and get more sleep knowing that your kid is not getting sleep, and there's something satisfying about that.

Laylla: And hey, it's even better being the great-aunt adjacent. I get to swoop in and get baby kisses and have a lot of fun, and I'm very much looking forward to that.

Chelle: But in in the spirit of of me having been away and being back, first of all, it was so fun a couple weeks ago to be to be recording from New York. It was it was it was definitely interesting to to be back in my my hometown and doing the Stoned Witches Hour. But what I really wanted to point out was was last week, um Lisa Ann from Empower with Flower, she filled in for me. She did so awesome. We love Lisa Ann. We we love her YouTube channel, Empower with Flower, and I was sad to miss it, and I was sad to miss talking to you, Laylla, but Lisa Ann rocked it. So, Lisa Ann, if you are listening, I appreciate, and you kicked ass.

Laylla: Yeah, she did such a good job. She did her very best to fill your, what did she say, your pointy witchy shoes. She did was so much fun. Lisa Ann, thank you, thank you for filling in. That was a ton of fun, and it's definitely a great episode. She That Stone Sasquatch story, I mean, the twist at the end, oh my goodness.

Chelle: Oh my god. I as soon as it it posted, I had to go listen to it, partly because I was having like FOMO, fear of missing out, and I was like, "Oh, I got to I got to listen to what I missed." But great stories. You guys were talking about weed and some good stuff, and and I was jealous that I wasn't a part of the conversation, but you guys killed it. Great job.

Laylla: Oh, we did smoke some good weed. I'm still smoking on some of that Blue Dream, and ooh, boy, it it definitely is very, very stony. I have to admit, though, I splurged, and I got some more of the very expensive Bakio Gelato.

Chelle: But you know what? First of all, I got to tell you, I can't ever remember the name of that, and I call it Baklava Gelato. So, if I ever say Baklava Gelato, you know what I'm talking about. And the other thing was, I was listening to you and Lisa Ann last week, and Blue Dream, like I haven't had Blue Dream in so long, and that is so great. And when I was hearing about how it made you feel and how good of a high it was, I was so jealous because I don't know, Blue Dream hasn't been a while hasn't been around on the East Coast in a while.

Laylla: The Blue Dream, like you said, is so delicious, so tasty, and it just gets me nice and high and nice and happy, ready to sit down and tell stories with my bestie.

Chelle: Oh, you need to you need to figure out a way to like pigeon carrier some of that Blue Dream to me, man.

Laylla: Oh, we do. What I really want to share is this Gelato because ooh, it's some tasty stuff, and boy, does it hit like a hammer. And I know you like the the heavy THCs.

Chelle: So, the Gelato one you bought, and the Blue Dream you grew. Correct?

Laylla: Correct.

Chelle: Okay. Okay.

Laylla: Yeah, and I had to splurge. I know I know I'm not usually the one to be spending a lot on on uh pot at the dispensary, but I made an exception. It's just so tasty.

Chelle: Sometimes you got to do what you got to do. Like this week, I have I have been good. I went back to this, and I I know I haven't talked to you in a couple weeks, but um I went back to Dog Patch uh this week. And—

Laylla: You liked that. I remember when you had that last time.

Chelle: I did. And it's it's only 26.29, which for me, you know I like those 32s and 34s. Right. So, it's a little bit lower, but remember a couple of weeks ago, this is the one that made me freaking Chatty Cathy.

Laylla: That's right. You had that that really nice up high that you really like, and—

Chelle: Right. Right. Like I I have some of my stuff in storage currently, and I had to go today and and do do some reorganization of my storage unit.

Laylla: Oh, never fun. Nobody likes that.

Chelle: It's not. It it's work, you know. You're lifting and moving stuff and organizing stuff that you packed away years ago. So, I smoked a bunch of Dog Patch and was like, "I was ready to rock that shit." Hammered it out in like 2 hours. And so, it's like that get stuff done high. You're still high, but you're like capable.

Laylla: Cannabis is known to be anti-inflammatory. It's one of the the main things that helps people, particularly that have pain. That's why I use it a lot for pain. And so, it sounds like with all the moving and and stretching that you did, having, you know, being able to smoke some of that Dog Patch was able to help you avoid a little bit of pain.

Chelle: Well, and that's why I smoked a bunch before I started because, you know, as you know, I have lifelong chronic back issues. I was trying to basically stave off killing my back because like this shit had to get done, but yet my back doesn't like when I have to get this type of thing done. So, I was trying to stave off, you know, killing myself. And don't worry, folks out there listening, I was bending at the knees as best as I could.

Laylla: Lift with your knees, not with your back.

Chelle: I was trying. But I I I really like this one. It's a what is it, a cultivar?

Laylla: Cultivar.

Chelle: Cultivar. It's a good cultivar. You know damn well next week I'll be rocking some 32, 33% shit.

Laylla: Oh, I know you will. I know you will. You're definitely going to go right back to that. Now, it's funny that you said you were cleaning out a a storage unit because I was cleaning some things out and actually had a garage sale this past weekend.

Chelle: I love garage sales. I love other people's shit, by the way. Love it. Love it.

Laylla: Dude, I do, too. Thrifting, one of my favorite pastimes. Now, you know me, I'm not a big Facebook user.

Chelle: Correct.

Laylla: I do have a fakebook account.

Chelle: You do. I love it.

Laylla: I do. So, I was using my fakebook account to sell some things because let's face it, as much as I don't like Facebook, Facebook Marketplace is an amazing local resource.

Chelle: Yeah. Yeah. Facebook has its uses.

Laylla: So, it has its uses. So, I was I was more than happy to sell things on it because I got a lot of traffic when I would put things up on Facebook. And I I started to notice a pattern. Anytime I put anything up that was over $100, I would start to get people who would text, and the first thing they would say is, "Is it available?" Which is what everybody says. It doesn't matter what it is. They just do the standard, "Is it available?" Then, they would say, "How long have you had it, and what condition is it in?" And it was always some variation of that. And the first time, of course, I was I told them and gave them the information. You know, it's a dining room set. It's X years old and blah, blah, blah. And then, they said, "Well, I want my brother to come pick it up because I'm I'm out of town for the weekend. Do you accept Zelle?" And I'm like, "Well, I do accept Zelle, but only in person." And they kept coming up with these excuses why they would want So, I knew there was eventually I knew it was a scam.

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: And then, I started seeing it over and over. I would get 5, 10, 15 of these people with the same variation. I finally started messing with them.

Chelle: I love it. That's exactly what you do. That's exactly You don't get mad. You get You play their game, man.

Laylla: The first time they said, "Is it available? How long have you had it for, and I hope it's in good condition." So, I said, "I've had it for 100 years. It's in good condition, but it's haunted. My great-great-great-great-grandfather brought it over from Scotland." So, they said—

Chelle: Oh my god.

Laylla: "Can I pick it up at your house or a public place?"

Chelle: Oh my god.

Laylla: I'm like, "A public place is great. Let's do the local library because they have a paranormal section." And I said, "I'm located at 420 Marijuana Lane in Scotland."

Chelle: Oh my god.

Laylla: So, he says, "Great. My brother will come over to pick it up because I'm out of town and not available." And I said, "Okay, I expect triple the price since you're having a second party pick it up." Now, keep in mind, this is $100. So, triple the price would be—

Chelle: 300.

Laylla: Yeah. So, he says, "Okay, triple the price is fine. How much is that?" And I said, "$2,000." So, he says, "Okay."

Chelle: I wish our I wish our listeners could see my face right now because I am like dumbfounded.

Laylla: He says, "I'll need your Zelle number." I said, "Okay, I'll need the $2,000, and I'll also need to see your paranormal adjudicant license before I can let you have this very haunted item. It's extremely powerful."

Chelle: Oh, my sweet Jesus.

Laylla: He says, "Give me your Zelle number for the money." Guess what number I said.

Chelle: 420.

Laylla: No. That see, that would have been better. I said, "1-2-3-8-6-7-5-3-0-9."

Chelle: Oh my god, Jenny. Jenny.

Laylla: And I said, "And I'm still going to need all the paperwork for the phantom spectrometer."

Chelle: Oh my god. I can't even.

Laylla: He says, "Okay. Okay, I'm going to put the the Zelle through." And I said, "All right, but if it doesn't work, that might mean that the curse has been activated, and I would recommend shielding with a level three transmogrifier first."

Chelle: Oh, my lord. Oh, my lord.

Laylla: "If you don't, I can't be held liable for what happens during an active past life haunting cursing."

Chelle: Oh my god. I love you.

Laylla: He says—you want to know his response?

Chelle: What?

Laylla: "All right."

Chelle: Are you shitting me?

Laylla: "I'll have my brother take care of it once he picks it up." And I said, "Does your brother have insurance against demons, specters, and phantasms? If he doesn't, I don't think I can sell this item to you in good conscience." He says, "Yes, he has those."

Chelle: Oh my god. Oh my god. Oh my god.

Laylla: So, now I'm like, "I'd feel terrible if a demon was let loose on your family line for money. I don't think I can do this in good conscience." And he says, "Friend, are you going to sell this to me, or are you wasting my time?" So, finally, at that point, I I had had enough. I figured if he wasn't getting it by then that I said, "You and I both know you were never going to buy this item. Good luck, and I hope you're not haunted now." And then, I ended the conversation.

Chelle: You're awesome. You're awesome. That's all I got to say.

Laylla: I have screenshots.

Chelle: Oh my god.

Laylla: I'm pretty sure So, I went from getting like tons of them, dozens of these responses, to after that, I I didn't get any anymore. I'm pretty sure I got put on some sort of block list. Now, I I want to, you know, not that I'm I'm putting this out there for all of our listeners, but this is a very special episode, Laylla. It's my birthday episode.

Laylla: Chelle, it's your birthday episode. Oh my goodness, that's right. Happy birthday, Chelle. Happy birthday, Chelle. Happy birthday, Chelle. Yay. Happy birthday.

Chelle: Thank you. Thank you. So, I for my birthday, I got a gift from my daughter, which I did not expect because she just gave birth, and I figured after giving birth, I'm the least on her mind.

Laylla: That's like the best gift you can get.

Chelle: Oh my god, this kid knocked it out of the park. Both my kids do. My son, he's a listener. He's a good boy. He knows I love him, and he does wonderful things for me, too. But this gift from my daughter, we need to discuss briefly.

Laylla: What'd she get you? I'm I'm intrigued.

Chelle: One thing we haven't talked about much on here, and our listeners are going to just drop their jaws at this, I currently own 152 tarot decks. It's a problem. I have an issue. I understand.

Laylla: That's my Chelle. We love your We love your little addiction. We indulge you. We like to get you nice little tarot decks for your collection. It's a beautiful collection, by the way.

Chelle: It is. So, my kids, you know, I have a Google spreadsheet that I have shared with my children.

Laylla: As one does for your collection.

Chelle: When you have that many tarot cards, you need to have a Google spreadsheet, just saying. So, I got this spreadsheet. I share it with my kids, and whenever they're not knowing what to get me, they'll go find a tarot deck that's not on my list, is pretty much how that works out. So, I get this Amazon package the other day, and my boyfriend is like, "Did you order stuff from Amazon?" I go, "Absolutely not." He's like, "Well, it's from Amazon, and it's got your name on it." I'm like, "I did not." He's like, "Were you in Were you in bed high one night on Amazon?" I'm like, "No."

Laylla: Oh, that's been known to happen. High Amazon shopping, oh, yeah, guilty.

Chelle: I have done it, and I'm not saying I haven't done it, but in this particular instance, I did not do it.

Laylla: Right. Right. You would have confessed if that was the case, just not this It wasn't this time.

Chelle: Right. I would have been like, "Oh, you know, I got a little fucked up last night, went a little crazy on the Amazon while I was puffing." It's been known. But no, like legit, never had ordered anything. So, I'm like, "What is in here?" And it never dawned on me that my birthday was coming.

Laylla: Yeah, after a little while, you kind of forget those things, you—

Chelle: But you know how once in a while you'll order something on Amazon and it's backordered for 1,000 years, and then out of the blue, I'm like, "Maybe I ordered something a long time ago."

Laylla: Right.

Chelle: Two tarot decks are in this package with a You know, Amazon send a little note. The little note said, "Happy birthday. Love," my daughter's name. And I was like, "Oh, what a little good girl." 78 Doors, Tarot of the 78 Doors. This one—

Laylla: Interesting.

Chelle: This one is like kind of Victorian type, but good tarot deck. I I'm not negating it. But this is the cream of the crop. This is what I have brought you here for today. You need to look up, and I need to show you this with your own bare hands, the Black Tarot.

Laylla: Ooh.

Chelle: All the cards are matte black. This is where we need to do like a a a video episode and review tarot cards. But they're all—

Laylla: Oh, yes. Oh, yes, let's do that sometime. Oh, those are gorgeous.

Chelle: I'm going to have to show you these in person. You are These are top-notch, and it's called the Black Tarot.

Laylla: Even in the video, those look stunning.

Chelle: Yeah, they're they're kind of The theme is a little dark, um but it's it's the Black Tarot.

Laylla: I like the edge, the edge color. I love the edge-to-edge pictures on on tarot cards, and those are very saturated and very pretty.

Chelle: Yes. So, um I when we get together in a month or so for our our big Laylla-Chelle gathering, um I'm going to have to bring these because you you need to see these. You are going to love these. These are right up your alley. But like how a lot of the cards you get are like that glossy cardstock, this is like This is like a matted cardstock, which I think adds to the whole aesthetic of it. Love, love, love. My kid did a fucking solid for me on this one.

Laylla: Nice. Way to go, Chelle eldest.

Chelle: The girl child. Girl child did good.

Laylla: Girl child. Girl child did good. I do remember the boy child this past summer, maybe it was also for your birthday, possibly last year, I'm not sure. I remember the boy child gave you a very nice tarot deck recently, too.

Chelle: I think that was Christmas.

Laylla: Ah, okay. Yes, so they're good kids.

Chelle: Like I said, when the kids are struggling, they go right to the tarot list, and they're like, "What can we find that Mom doesn't have?" because Mom has like every—

Laylla: Every deck. That's amazing. We are absolutely, I'm going to hold you to this, so, listeners, let's make Chelle accountable. We are totally doing a deck review episode. That would be so much fun. I'll bring in my measly like 10 decks. We'll play with all of our decks. I cannot wait to see all of your decks. I'm so excited.

Chelle: I'll just make sure I pick 10 that are the 10 you have.

Laylla: Right. Yes, let me have at least one or two. That would be fun. No, that would be so much fun, Chelle. We should definitely do that.

Chelle: Yeah, but like this for for anybody who is even if you're new to tarot, because you know tarot cards are tarot cards, it's the the the pictures, you know, they're different on every deck, but the card meaning is the card meaning. If you're into like good artwork and kind of a I don't want to say a darker theme, but kind of a a little bit of a darker theme, this Black Tarot worth every cent. I don't know what it cost because it was a gift, but worth it. Check it out on Amazon. I'm sure it's there. That's where it came from. The man gave it to me from his little blue truck.

Laylla: Aw, which is always nice, so easy.

Chelle: Yeah, love my Amazon man.

Laylla: And getting surprise tarot decks, how fun.

Chelle: Yeah, so 154. I think I have as much as many tarot decks as some of the local tarot shops here in Salem, but you know, hey.

Laylla: You know, you should do like a little YouTube channel for each like a just a little thing, like pull out a deck, fan through it a little bit, show some of the major arcana, some of the important cards, you know, maybe one or two of each of the the suit cards, and talk about the deck a little bit. You know, 15 10, 15 minutes tops on a deck. How many people want to research Seriously, though, how many people want to research a deck, and you have you have like material for days, for years, to do a deck at a time, do a little unboxing and a little review of each. I would love to see that. I would watch you do that. Get high and do tarot do tarot reviews.

Chelle: Especially because, as you know, I have decks like from when we were first when we first became friends. Some of those decks they don't they don't print no more.

Laylla: You have some beautiful decks that are out of print, hard to find decks. And even if they're easy to find decks, how often do you just see the one card on the back and you can't see anything else? Right. And, you know, being able to see a video of that would be really fun, I think. I think people would appreciate it.

Chelle: Yeah, that would be cool.

Laylla: Stoned Witch does tarot.

Chelle: Stoned Witch does tarot. It would be fun.

Laylla: It would be fun.

Chelle: It would be. It would be.

Laylla: I just did a dab. I just did a dab of some Jet Fuel Gelato, which is a really nice This is kind of a diamondy sauce. Let's see if I can show you.

Chelle: Ooh.

Laylla: Yeah, it's kind of really nice. It has little diamonds in it, and it's a little little saucier than some of your normal wax or shatter or or butters. It's very good, very tasty.

Chelle: Excellent. Excellent. I always joke with people and say that they created a national holiday for my birth, which is partially correct. It is time. It is getting beach weather. Like, I don't know what it's like in California, but in the East Coast, holy bejesus, let me tell you, like it was 94 degrees the other day, and you can't hate that. You cannot hate that.

Laylla: That's early summer for us. I love that weather. That's some of my favorite weather. It's blue skies all the time. We had a little bit of overcast this morning and it's a gorgeous 78 degrees today, so I'm feeling a little New York weather has rolled in to kind of celebrate that you have returned to Massachusetts.

Chelle: Yeah, right? It was so weird. I I was in New York for a couple of weeks, as you know, and it was like blue skies and the best weather ever. I come back to Massachusetts, and I must have brought that doom and gloom of broom with me because it has been like like it's warm and it's humid, but it's like gray. It is gray.

Laylla: Yep. So, we had a little nice little gray morning, but it's gorgeous. So, I'm definitely looking forward to summer. I'm looking forward to getting to the beach. I'd love to get outside. This This state is amazing for that. And I know you guys like to do You and your boyfriend are all over the East Coast. Every time I see you on social media, you're hopping here, you're hopping there, you're going camping, you're checking out the coast. You guys love the ocean. You're always doing stuff, Chelle. Do you have anything wonderful planned for this summer?

Chelle: I have a couple of things planned for this summer. Camping is a must. I actually gathered up my camping stuff earlier today. Camping is a must. There's something about, you know, whether you're you're of the witchy persuasion or not, something about sleeping outside. But you have to be in a tent because mosquito bites hurt and they itch. But sleeping outside, it's therapeutic. It is really therapeutic. And there's nothing like like I can't wait till we get together and camp this summer. There's nothing like a campfire, good friends, big fat bowls and bongs. You can't beat that.

Laylla: Well, I have a secret to share. I have been looking forward to festival season, and as long as monkeypox doesn't mess everything up, I am planning on being back on the East Coast for two weeks this summer for a major festival at one of our favorite places.

Chelle: OMG, are you talking end of July?

Laylla: Yes, I am.

Chelle: Are you talking Are you talking in Western New York?

Laylla: Yes, I am.

Chelle: Yay!

Laylla: Yay!

Chelle: I I would like to give a little shout-out here. We we've never really talked about them or mentioned them, but this is a love that Laylla and I have had for well over 20 years. Brushwood Folklore Center in where the hell is that?

Laylla: Sherman, New York.

Chelle: Sherman, New York. All I know is it's exit six off of Route 17.

Laylla: Yes, the Sirius Rising and the Sankofa festivals this summer are on, and I plan on being at both of them.

Chelle: I actually have never heard of the second one. The the What is it? Sankofa?

Laylla: Sankofa. It used to be It was You've been to it before. It was called something different back in the day. It's Brushwood's festival, the one that they put on themselves. Sirius Rising is another group that does it there. And then Sankofa is the one that they have always put on themselves, and it had a different name before.

Chelle: Okay. Okay. I I I know the vibe you're talking about. I just I can't remember the name of what we knew it by, but I remember it, and it was just a different name.

Laylla: So, we will have two episodes. Maybe we should try and do one of them live, but we'll have at least two episodes where I am recording from gorgeous Brushwood Folklore Center in Western New York at major pagan festival.

Chelle: Now, I got to I got to start twisting my boyfriend's arm here, but I

Laylla: I will help. I will help.

Chelle: I would love to to work it out where where we are doing a dual broadcast together live at Brushwood Folklore Center.

Laylla: Am I the one that has come up with the wild idea? Chelle, you have to come do this. I get to twist your arm at least once. Let it be this time.

Chelle: Dear listeners, I am usually the troublemaker. Today, take note. Everybody put this in their Google calendar. Laylla Laylla is promoting an adventure.

Laylla: I am, and you have to go. Oh my goodness, the fairy garden, the dead lighter graveyard, the bonfires, the fire spinners, all of the all of the people and the workshops and the woods and oh my goodness, Chelle, come on, you have to go.

Chelle: You know, for for all of you guys that have never been out to Brushwood Folklore Center, Dead Lighter Graveyard has nothing to do with paganism or But there is something to be said for people who appreciate the fact that you got dead lighters and nothing to do with them. They actually have a location where you can throw your dead lighters, and it is okay. And it's almost like a shrine to all the Bics that have long gone.

Laylla: Yeah, it's a lovely place and something that we fondly remember.

Chelle: There's something about that There's something about that Dead Lighter Graveyard that just it it it warms the cockles of my heart.

Laylla: Oh, there's so many things I'm looking forward to. It's been far too long since I have been in their lovely fields and dancing around that bonfire.

Chelle: First thing I'm thinking of is hot tub.

Laylla: Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Going to go set up my camp, get everything all perfect, my little witchy way, and head down to the hot tub.

Chelle: Yeah. Yeah. I got to I got to I got to start twisting my boyfriend's arm here. I got to start start sowing those seeds and

Laylla: We'll do a little spell. Stay tuned at the end of this here, Chelle, and we will we'll do a we'll cast a little spell to help persuade him. Let him know how fun it is.

Chelle: If any of our listeners have any good ideas of how I can get my boyfriend to go camping for a week at Brushwood, email us.

Laylla: Email us.

Chelle: stonedwitcheshour@gmail.com.

Laylla: Email us your best excuses as to why Chelle needs to go to Sirius Rising and Sankofa festival.

Chelle: Yep. Yep.

Laylla: Yeah, we'll use those to convince boyfriend. It'll work.

Chelle: I need you people. I need you.

Laylla: So, now that we got our summer plans, Chelle, do you have a spooky story for me? I am getting pretty high over here.

Chelle: I actually do. There is a very creepy asylum. You know I love these asylums.

Laylla: I hate asylums. Where do you keep coming up with these? Why does the East Coast have so many asylums, and how do you keep finding them?

Chelle: Because they're everywhere. This is actually This one actually is really close to home. This one is maybe about 10 miles from my house, maybe not even that far. This is the creepy, creepy asylum. They If you look it up online, it'll say it's near Boston, but essentially, it's in Danvers, Massachusetts, and it was the Danvers State Hospital, also known as the State Lunatic Hospital.

Laylla: That sounds terrible.

Chelle: Now, you know how how this story starts. It was built as a compassionate and enlightened treatment place.

Laylla: They always say that. I don't think any of them mean it. Do they know what those words mean?

Chelle: They don't.

Laylla: No. No, I don't think they do.

Chelle: And of course, true to asylum form, patients endured periods of overcrowding and abuse.

Laylla: Shocker. I'm so surprised. This is my surprise face, Chelle, look.

Chelle: Yeah, right?

Laylla: So surprised.

Chelle: This one actually was featured in a in a kind of I don't want to say B-movie horror movie or low-budget horror movie, but kind of.

Laylla: A B-movie horror movie, low-budget movie?

Chelle: And hey, by the way, for our friends at We All Pod Down Here, if you are looking for a offbeat horror movie, you're going to want to check this one out. This would be a great one for you guys to review from We All Pod Down Here.

Laylla: So, they were a guest on one of our episodes. We had a lot of fun with them. We also guest on their podcast, so check them out, We All Pod Down Here, wherever you get your podcasts.

Chelle: For the We All Pod Down Here guys, you know, this is a movie for you. It is um We'll get We'll get to the movie in a minute. But anyway, so this building, 1874, all asylums were like mid to late 1800s. Maybe it was a thing in that period.

Laylla: You know, it was Yeah, maybe it was like in in fashion. Maybe it was in fashion for them to try to help people. They all They did all start with with the idea of being compassionate and trying to solve a problem that they saw. I'll give them that.

Chelle: Well, the psychiatrist who um recommended that this be built, Dr. Thomas Kirkbride, he was an advocate for treating mental health patients with respect. So, you know, every every idea has a good intention initially. It's just what the fuck happens from there that goes haywire.

Laylla: How's that old saying go? The road to hell is paved with good intentions.

Chelle: Correct. You know, he thought that having plenty of light and air circulation would promote mental health healing. You know, there's something to be said for that.

Laylla: Yeah, I don't think he's wrong. He's not wrong.

Chelle: When your mental health is going a little haywire, go sit by a pond in the woods. You'll feel better.

Laylla: There's something to be said to getting out in nature, getting, you know, getting to do something. I know it helps some people. Obviously, it's not going to help all things. You know, but you're feeling a little gloomy, you need a little pick-me-up, for sure.

Chelle: Right. So, you know, he tried to create a bunch of um private rooms for folks to give them comfort and privacy. Again, his intentions were great. They really were.

Laylla: Sounds like he had really good ideas.

Chelle: Yeah. Now, one thing to also keep note of, and and this is a different podcast that we're going to do uh later in the year, more towards October, Halloween time. But what a lot of people don't realize is that the Salem witch trials technically didn't happen in present-day Salem. Ooh, there you go, boo.

Laylla: Surprise.

Chelle: I put that out there for you.

Laylla: Okay, spoiler alert.

Chelle: Yeah, right? So, many people didn't realize don't realize that the Salem witch trials um took place in at the time in whatever, 1692, it was called Salem Village. But now, modern day is actually Danvers. This asylum is on what's called Hathorne Hill, and it's in what used to be Salem Village. The asylum is built on what's called Hathorne Hill, and Hathorne Hill is located in what used to be uh back in 1692, Salem Village. And it's um the same What do you want to call it? It's the same place where John Hathorne had built a house, and he was like basically the judge, the dickhead who decided to kill all these people.

Laylla: Yeah, he was the one who decided the sentences of everyone, right?

Chelle: Right. So, so this guy who who was the judge lived on what's the modern-day property of the Danvers State Hospital. So, you got that creepy energy going on.

Laylla: Oh, great. So, it already is built on a basis of ick.

Chelle: Ick. Now, it was like what, maybe 200 years later, like 180 years later, but still, as as we've talked about before, that ick stays with land.

Laylla: Oh, yeah. Ick like that doesn't wash away in 200 years. That's That's going to go deeper than that.

Chelle: I'm going to jump ahead really quick and tell you what this place is currently because I I've actually been up there. They have

Laylla: Oh, of course you have. Of course. Of course you have.

Chelle: Um, it was a big complex with dozens of buildings. All that's left now is a couple of the main buildings, which are super cool and old and kind of like gothicky-looking. Um, but the other buildings were torn down, and and the main structures that still stand and and new buildings that have been built are now like rich people condos.

Laylla: Great. So, like you can buy a house there? Ew.

Chelle: Well, you know, like a condo. Like in New York, we'd call them apartments, but in Massachusetts, everything's a condo. But it's really an apartment, in my opinion.

Laylla: And you buy Yeah, and you buy it rather than rent it.

Chelle: Right. And I totally want to go live there. Wouldn't you want to go live where the asylum is?

Laylla: No. No, I would not. Fuck yeah, I'd do it. You know I'd do it. You know I'd do it.

Laylla: I know you would do it, and you'd love it, and you'd probably make friends with all the ghosts.

Chelle: But, you know, unfortunately, as you can tell, as my stories about asylums always go, it was meant to house 450 patients when it was built in 1874. By the 1920s, there was more than 2,300 patients crammed in there.

Laylla: That's like five times, Chelle. That's ridiculous.

Chelle: And they never the staff levels remained the same.

Laylla: How does this always happen? Why does this always happen? Did they run out of money? What the hell? That's terrible.

Chelle: Yeah, the late 1800s, early 1900s, they didn't think about that. They just kept bringing people in, not looking at the down the road.

Laylla: They didn't care about people at all.

Chelle: So, as you can imagine, going from 400 to 2,300 with the same staff levels, there was a sharp decline in patient care.

Laylla: Oh, surprise. Shocker.

Chelle: They did prefrontal lobotomies. They over-

Laylla: Oh, I hate those. I hate those.

Chelle: They did over-medicated. They physically restrained people.

Laylla: If I remember correctly, Chelle, from other asylums, a lot of these people were probably drunks who had sobered up, uh women who were abused, or people who had postpartum depression.

Chelle: Super poor folks. Super poor folk.

Laylla: Uh, people who had some type of, you know, mental illness were, you know, maybe they had PTSD, maybe, you know, they were in shock. Some of these people were just old or too sad.

Chelle: And if the orphanages were filled, this is where they sent orphaned children if the orphanages were filled as well. So, there were kids that had no mental illness that grew up here.

Laylla: Well, that's terrible.

Chelle: So, basically, it became a dumping ground for the people they just didn't want to see anymore.

Laylla: Correct.

Chelle: Society's least favored grouping of people, basically.

Laylla: I got you. And let's pretend we're taking care of them because we're sending them to the asylum. Yay.

Chelle: Now, in 2001, they actually did a horror movie there called Session 9. So, for all you B-movie horror folks, Session 9, check it out. The plot centers around a crew that was tasked with cleaning up asbestos as they were trying to like rehab it into these apartments or condos or whatever.

Laylla: Interesting premise. I know this is fiction, but as we've talked about before, sometimes renovation can make hauntings worse.

Chelle: Right. The whole premise of Session 9 is they pissed off some ghosts, long story short.

Laylla: Sounds fun. I like a good B-movie.

Chelle: Yeah. And I mean, obviously, Session 9 was not fact, 100% fact, but they they do touch on some factual things in there. But the whole plot is essentially not necessarily true.

Laylla: Sounds fun, though.

Chelle: So, they found in 1997, they found a cemetery on the grounds.

Laylla: Wait, is this real or in the movie?

Chelle: Real.

Laylla: Oh, wow.

Chelle: They didn't have traditional headstones, just numbered graves. Um, 770.

Laylla: Oh, no. Oh, Chelle, that's terrible.

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: Just numbers? They reduced these people That sucks. That's awful.

Chelle: Your like your headstone said 452.

Laylla: No, well, mine would say 420, but that's still terrible.

Chelle: Right. The public in Danvers um volunteered and worked together, and in 2002, they actually created a memorial and had a memorial service for these patients.

Laylla: Oh, I love that. That's really That's actually really nice.

Chelle: And the state actually now uh tends to the land, to the cemetery portion.

Laylla: I know it doesn't matter to them anymore because they're dead, but maybe it matters to something, to their energy somehow. Or and at least to the people living, I mean, I think that's a nice thing to do.

Chelle: As you can imagine, you know, I didn't really touch on a lot of the abuse there, but, you know, front lobotomies, holding people, tying people down, like shit was crazy there. You got three times as many people. There were there were missing patients. Patients would wander off the grounds because, see, as a lot of these places were in the late 1800s, early 1900s, it was kind of designed to like be self-sufficient, like they had cows there for like milk and cheese and butter, and they grew their own vegetables, and, you know, they they were

Laylla: Supposedly to rehabilitate the people, but probably really for like cheap labor so they could have cheap food.

Chelle: Right, and not spend a lot of money. So, as you can imagine, with all this sadness, neglect, abuse, trauma, it has stained the land. And then you add the Hathorne thing from the Salem witch trials, and Jesus, that land is is just unhappy.

Laylla: And it's got a history. It's got a dark history.

Chelle: Visitors often report seeing deep dark shadows um flitting about the property. Others see grayish mists moving slowly around and following people who come to the site.

Laylla: They follow people? Oh, that's not fair. That's not cool.

Chelle: Yeah, they'll be like like a grayish mist. Yeah. I have only been up there a few times, and I've only been able to drive around. Like I said, it is now an active

Laylla: Did a shadow follow you?

Chelle: I was in my car, and it was daytime.

Laylla: Did it follow your car?

Chelle: Not that I noticed. Because it's because it's apartments now, you can't just wander around. But I would love to just randomly knock on someone's door and be like, "Hey, man, can I bring my Ouija board in?"

Laylla: Hey, no, you said no Ouija boards, Chelle. You're breaking your own rules.

Chelle: But I am experienced and know how to Oh, yeah. You're the expert. You get to use a Ouija board. You're terrible. I know how to handle Unlike Unlike Unlike my kid, I know how to handle my business.

Laylla: Well, that is true. That is true.

Chelle: But another weird thing happened. On April 7th in 2007, they claim that the ghosts there burned down part of the building.

Laylla: No. No, they're not allowed to do that. Ghosts are not allowed to do things like that. Nope, nope, nope. Burned down a building? Chelle, that's not No, that's No.

Chelle: The fire was so large, it was visible all the way from Boston, which is 17 miles away.

Laylla: Holy shit. How did they start a fire that big?

Chelle: Well,

Laylla: They don't know how it started?

Chelle: They No, they don't. You turn You turn a haunted asylum into freaking condos. What do you think is going to happen?

Laylla: A lot of unhappy condo residents, maybe? Do they I wonder if they have a high turnover of ownership there.

Chelle: You know, I've looked into them, and at the moment, they're a little bit beyond my financial cap. But I I've had my eye on those on those I have, I'm not going to lie to you. I'd love to live there.

Laylla: Probably gorgeous view. You just got to put up with, you know, a murderous, misogynistic asshole judge who liked to hand down shitty sentences for women and

Chelle: Tortured.

Laylla: And tortured and inhumanely treated patients.

Chelle: You know, the whole people walking down the hall.

Laylla: Dark shadows following your guests around.

Chelle: You'll hear the crying. You'll hear the moaning. Very very Keep some incense and some saltwater by the door so everyone who comes over can cleanse themselves before they leave.

Laylla: Right. Right.

Chelle: That's all. That's all you got to do.

Laylla: But I I've driven up the hill, and I've driven, you know, around around the property. It has a sadness. The hill has a sadness. Like

Laylla: So, there's like an aura about it. You can feel the energy there.

Chelle: If you if you're sensitive to energy, even if you don't know the place, you're like, "Some bad shit happened here."

Laylla: Right.

Chelle: There's not a lot of like, you know, fantastic stories associated with it, but people frequently see and hear things and have throughout the years. And and I think that the the biggest thing that sets this apart from other asylums is the tie into the Salem witch trials because that's bad juju to begin with.

Laylla: Right. You're starting out with a bad juju. Like, it's all done on top of an Indian burial ground while they were at it. I mean, my lord. It's not like two wrongs, you know, two negatives make a positive in this case. It's like, two bad jujus make a really big bad juju. That's pretty much how it goes.

Laylla: Right. And the weird thing is, is it's in a very, um, shit, what's the word I'm looking for? It's a big hill in what is a busy area. Obviously, it wasn't a busy area back then, but they never disturbed that whole hill. There's like no business or buildings. You just drive up this like wooded hill, and this is all at the very top of it. It's, it's, it's very surreal.

Chelle: So, it seems almost undisturbed as you go up this hill until you get to the condos at the top?

Laylla: Right, because everything around it is like very, what is the word I'm thinking of? I don't know. It's a very busy road with a lot of traffic and a lot of businesses and gas stations and this and that, strip club, this, that, and the other. But you start going up this Hawthorne Hill, and there's no business. It's trees and grass. It's just different from its surroundings. Urbanized, is that the word I'm looking for?

Chelle: Yeah, so it's not as urbanized as the surrounding area.

Laylla: Everything around it. So, it's like, it almost like stands out.

Chelle: It's like going back in time a little bit when you go up the hill.

Laylla: And it's got this heaviness.

Chelle: Yeah, you said the aura. It had like a sad, an aura of sadness around it.

Laylla: Yeah.

Chelle: No, that sounds really creepy. That's like one of those hauntings that's more pervasive, like little noises and things that you see out of the corner of your eye, and those dark shadows, and that uneasy, terrible feeling as you're walking around.

Laylla: Right, but you know, and then you wonder, is it Hawthorne related? Is it asylum related? What's going on here?

Chelle: That sadness is just baked into the hill itself.

Laylla: And, you know, yeah, they, they did do like these numbered graves, but there has been rumors of also mass graves. Just bad juju, man. Bad juju.

Chelle: It sounds terrible. It sounds like an awful place. Now, when you went up there, did you bring any equipment with you, or did you just go and kind of sense, try to use your own senses and abilities to see what it felt like?

Laylla: I, I, I went up there trying to use my own senses and abilities because it initially started out, I was out doing other things, and my boyfriend was like, "Hey, you want to check this place out?" I was like, "Oh my god, yeah."

Chelle: Who's going to pass up an opportunity to go check out something that's that haunted?

Laylla: Right, but then when I realized, you know, there's probably 100, 150 condos up there, so it's, it's not, you know, I don't live up there. I'm not going to go creeping around, you know.

Chelle: Right, nobody really wants a, an unknown car driving slowly around their neighborhood. The, the Nextdoor and the neighborhood apps are going to go crazy.

Laylla: Right, right. You know, I, I didn't want to be invasive, but I, I definitely had to take a stroll through it in the car.

Chelle: The asylum itself is gone, though? Like, the building itself is gone?

Laylla: The main building is still there.

Chelle: Was that turned into condos, or is that empty?

Laylla: Yes. No, they rehabbed it into condos.

Chelle: The actual building?

Laylla: You can live in the fucking OG building.

Chelle: Oh, no. I wonder if you could figure out if your room was used for lobotomies or something creepy like that.

Laylla: Um, on a lot of the online sites, if you look up the Danvers State Hospital, you can find the original blueprints of the floor plan. So, yeah, you can. Yeah, you can. No, oh, creepy. That's so creepy. Now, I want to go like door-to-door and ask if they've had any experiences. That's terrible. I wonder if anyone has. Hey, if you live there, let us know.

Laylla: Originally, there was either four or six huge buildings for housing, and the main building was part housing and part like the medical stuff, lobotomies and all that. And there's one residential building and then the main huge building that was half residential, half medical that are still standing and have been rehabbed into condos.

Chelle: Oh, wow. Interesting. Interesting. No, I wonder if you can find their floor plans on Zillow. Like, can we go kind of look at them? I admit, I have a voyeuristic love of looking at people's houses on Zillow.

Laylla: I don't want to, I don't want to like provoke people to do bad things, but when, when my boyfriend was younger, he grew up in this area, there's a tunnel that you can actually access, and that tunnel would take you up into the buildings, and he would actually go in and wander around with his friends in this abandoned asylum, because the condos are new within the last five or six years. So, he would wander around, and they would do what teenagers would do, looking for ghosts and this and that.

Chelle: Oh, urban exploration in the abandoned tunnels. Those tunnels are still there?

Laylla: He thinks that when they built the condos, they might have permanently blocked them off. My boyfriend is much like me, and he's like, "Hey, if you ever want to go on an adventure and find out, let's do this."

Chelle: Oh, you two are trouble squared.

Laylla: We are like a trespassing ticket away from fun. It's not that it's an extravagant story with lots of like specific ghosts, but it's definitely a very haunted location. It's on one of the top nine haunted locations in the state of Massachusetts. And not that I'm telling you to go creep in someone's condo complex, but if you're ever in Massachusetts, man, it's worth a drive-through because, if nothing else, that main building is so cool. It's just one of those old, huge, like, it's, it's just cool to look at if you like.

Chelle: That old asylum architecture really is interesting. I'll give it that. It, they do make definitely very cool-looking buildings, creepy but cool.

Laylla: And again, and again, the movie they made that was semi-based on it and actually was filmed on location there, um, was Session 9. Great movie. Interesting. It's just a B horror movie, that's all.

Chelle: So, my story as well involves a place that's not really very haunted. This is a true crime, and there's a tiny paranormal element, but mostly.

Laylla: You love your true crime. You love your true crime like nobody's business.

Chelle: Yeah, true crime, it, it creeps me out, man. I think I looked into a lot of true crime, especially when I had kids, because I wanted to know what to look out for. I wanted to know what I had to be careful for. And now, I'm kind of interested in true crime because the world is really shitty and sad right now, and there's a lot of horrible things that are going on. And, and it breaks my heart to look at the current news, and there's not a lot I can do. You know, I can donate, I can, I can march, I can vote, I can do those things. So, sometimes, you know, it's nice to look at old crime that maybe has been solved or, uh, and to look at paranormal things and kind of take my mind off of what's going on right now. You know, I can look at these things, and maybe by looking at these old things, I can give a little bit of, a little bit of memory, a little bit of honor to the victims, and I can maybe learn a little bit, and maybe help somebody learn a little bit to avoid it happening again. You know, and, you know, I'll definitely admit that there's a little bit of, I need to kind of take my mind off of what's going on right now. Right. These, these are things that are interesting, but not something that I have to try and fix.

Laylla: And I do hope that, that for our listeners out there, I do hope that, you know, on a serious note, that you kind of find the same solace, uh, with, with Laylla and I's little podcast project here. We hope that with everything going on, that everybody's doing great, and we hope that we can give you an hour, hour and a half of some giggles and stony high fun stuff and take your mind off of the real world for a few.

Chelle: Yep, and that's exactly what I'm trying to do. So, I know these things are kind of creepy, and they're definitely really sad, and my heart absolutely goes out to the families of, of the true crimes that we cover and the horrific crimes and things that are going on right now. So, that being said, this area.

Laylla: Give us your story. What's your story?

Chelle: Let me take a quick puff because I'm sad now, and I want to take a hit. This story takes place in Northern California.

Laylla: Okay.

Chelle: And it's called the Keddie Cabin Murders.

Laylla: Now, like by the Redwood Forest or?

Chelle: This is in the Sierra Nevada, Sierra, this is up in the Sierra Nevada Mountains, so there are, there are redwoods there. This is in the community of, called Keddie. It's very small. It's outside of town named Quincy, so it's also near a town in, in Northern California called Quincy.

Laylla: Oh, okay.

Chelle: So, this takes place in the early '80s. There was a woman, her name was Glenna Susan Sharp, and she went by the name Sue. Sue was born March 29th, 1945. She's an Aries. And, uh, she got married kind of young to a man named, uh, I don't remember his name. Anyway, she got married, and her husband was very abusive. They had five kids, and it's rumored that he even abused the kids in multiple different ways, but I couldn't find any verification, so I'm not going to go there, but he definitely was abusive to her. So, she fled him. Oh, she, interestingly enough, Glenna Susan, Sue Sharp, was born in Springfield, Massachusetts.

Laylla: No shit, not too far from here.

Chelle: Yeah, not too far. So, she lived with her husband, and, uh, again, he was abusive, and she decided to take off. She wasn't going to put up with it anymore once he started abusing the kids, so the rumor goes.

Laylla: Smart woman.

Chelle: Exactly. And she went to Northern California where her brother lived in, outside of town called Keddie. And he lived in a trailer park, and she moved in with the trailer that he and his wife had just moved out of. It was a little one-bedroom trailer. Now, Sue had five kids, John was about 15, Sheila was 14, Tina was 12, Ricky was 10, and little tiny Greg was the baby, and he was five.

Laylla: That's a lot of kids.

Chelle: A lot of kids in a one-bedroom trailer, so that didn't last very long. Now, Sue was trying to better herself. She was working part-time, and she was also going to college, and she was basically living on welfare and student loans trying to, to take care of herself, her kids, and make something of herself.

Laylla: God bless her.

Chelle: Really hard to do with one kid, let alone five.

Laylla: Right.

Chelle: Or even on your own. I mean, damn. She escaped this abusive man. She's got her kids. She's living in a trailer. She finds a cabin in a place called Keddie Resort, and this cabin was much larger. It was a two-bedroom with a big basement that they could make into a room for the oldest boy, John. They moved into cabin number 28 in the Keddie Resort. The front looks really little, but it's quite a big cabin, so they loved it. And it's right in the middle of all these other cabins. So, not only did they have a lot more space in the, you know, in the woods, they also had neighbors that had kids of the same age, and children started to make friends with the people right next door, the Seabolts.

Laylla: Sounds like a perfect life so far. I could totally go live in a cabin right now and be loving life.

Chelle: Right, so she's escaped this, this abusive relationship, she's bettering herself, her kids are in a better place, things are going pretty good for Sue. But.

Laylla: But.

Chelle: But, unfortunately, that didn't last very long. Sue was described as a very private person. She kind of kept to herself, but a good person. And she dated a dude named Daryl just a few times, and that didn't work out, but it was reportedly nothing special, nothing crazy, nothing bad.

Laylla: Well, you need to be picky when you got five kids.

Chelle: Right. Everything was going good until Saturday, April 11th, 1981. Things at the Sharp family at cabin 28 were going just fine. Uh, the two girls, Tina and Sheila, were next door at the Seabolts' daughter, you know, hanging out with the Seabolts' daughter. And the eldest boy, John, he was off with his friend Dana. Now, I have seen Dana referred to as a girl in a couple websites, and I'm almost 100% sure Dana is a boy. So, I have an uncle Dana, by the way. Shout out to my uncle Dana. Love you.

Laylla: Shout out to Laylla's uncle Dana.

Chelle: Awesome dude. So, John and his friend Dana went to Quincy looking for trouble, basically, as 15-year-old boys wanted to do at the time. You know, they were at a arcade, they tried looking for parties. It was rumored that Dana dealt acid or that they were looking for acid, but again, that was a rumor I couldn't confirm.

Laylla: Acid like.

Chelle: Like blotter paper, go for a nice trip acid. I got you. Okay, I just wanted to make sure that I was on the same page. Right. So, at the Sharp house is Sue and her two youngest boys, Ricky and Greg, and one of their friends, uh, his name was Justin. Now, this house again, like I said before, had two bedrooms. On the first floor was the little boys' bedroom. The two little boys shared a bedroom right off like the main living room.

Laylla: Okay.

Chelle: And then in the basement was another bedroom for John, the oldest boy. And then there was a, a third bedroom that Sue shared with the, with the girls, Tina and Sheila. So, the two little boys, Ricky and Greg, are in their bedroom with Justin playing, and they plan on playing all night and crashing in there and having a little sleepover. Sue's hanging out, and don't know where John and Dana were seen in Quincy about 9:30, 10:00. So, they know they were there. It's about 10:00 that night, Sheila decides to spend the night at the Seabolts' and Tina heads home. The next morning, Sheila was going to go to church with the Seabolt family. So, about 7:00 AM, she gets up at her friend's house and goes literally next door to her own house to change into clothes for church. But when she opens the front door, Shell.

Laylla: Uh-oh.

Chelle: Oh, man, that poor little girl. She was only 14. And when she opened the door, she saw her brother face up in a pool of blood and Dana face down, and her mother covered in a yellow blanket with blood everywhere, Shell. It was.

Laylla: What happened?

Chelle: Sue and John both had.

Laylla: Wait, how old was, how old was the girl?

Chelle: 14. Sheila was 14. And she saw her mother and, and John both had their throats slit. They were bound. Their hands and their feet were bound. Um, and, and there was literally blood everywhere. They were all gagged.

Laylla: All the kids were dead except Sheila?

Chelle: She didn't know at first. She saw the bodies, and it appear, then she ran next door and told them what had happened. And I guess the mom, the Seabolt mom and her oldest son, they went to the house and looked in the windows, and they, they looked in the windows of the boys' bedroom, and they were all sleeping. So, they opened the windows and got the boys out the window so they wouldn't have to go through the front room and see what had happened. But the three little boys were all alive, and they were sleeping.

Laylla: I bet you that, that, that, that the older boy, something happened, he tried to go help his mom and was a casualty of it. And I'd look at the boyfriend and the ex-husband.

Chelle: That is a theory. They called 911, and of course, they came right over, and they found blood on the ceiling in some rooms. They found blood on the bottom of Sue and John's feet, which means at some point they had been walking around. Sue and John had both been bludgeoned with at least one type of hammer and also possibly with the butt of a BB gun. And so, their cause of death was blows to the head as well as loss of blood from having their throats cut.

Laylla: Oh my god.

Chelle: The other boy, Dana, was also bound. Uh, he was found face down, and his wounds were to the back of his head, again, a hammer-type blows to the back of his head, and he had been strangled.

Laylla: Like he was, like he was running or gotten from behind, basically.

Chelle: Maybe. He couldn't have been running because his feet were tied. His feet were bound. He did not have blood on the bottom of his feet, and he had been strangled to death instead of having his throat cut. And it wasn't until a little bit later that investigators realized that one kid was missing. They didn't know where Tina was, the 12-year-old girl.

Laylla: Where'd they find her?

Chelle: They didn't. They didn't find her. The FBI.

Laylla: Did they ever?

Chelle: They did eventually. They did eventually. But back at the scene of the crime, they found a hammer that had been used in the attack and a steak knife that had been used in the attack, and they had been stabbed so viciously that the blade of the knife was bent at a 30-degree angle. And I don't know, somebody must.

Laylla: That's horrible.

Chelle: And, you know, getting your throat cut, that's going to leave a lot of blood, and they must have been moving at some point because there was blood in so many different rooms, Shell. It was just horrific.

Laylla: Well, how did it get on the ceiling?

Chelle: Possibly, from what I understand, when you cut someone's jugular, there's a lot of blood spray. So, maybe they were stabbed viciously enough or maybe from, from, from. Oh, man, that sucks. Maybe from, from getting their throat cut, possibly. Um, I'm no forensic, I'm no Dexter, but, you know, there's something. Um, Sue was found naked from the waist down, and her legs were spread apart, and she had blood on the inside of her thighs. Her underwear had been shoved down her throat.

Laylla: That's why I was thinking boyfriend or ex-husband.

Chelle: Right, her underwear had been shoved down her throat, and a bandana was shoved after that, and then her, she was gagged with electrical tape. All of them had been gagged and bound.

Laylla: Sounds personal.

Chelle: It does. It does.

Laylla: You don't go, I've watched enough NCIS and all that to know that you don't go through all of that unless it's personal.

Chelle: Supposedly, according to the autopsy, they didn't find any evidence of forced sexual penetration, so they assumed she had not been molested, but all of that sounds like maybe she had been. I don't know. But according to the autopsy, she had not. Now, the boys in the beginning said that they hadn't heard anything, that they had slept through it. There was one neighbor that was a little ways away that around 1:00 or 2:00 AM said that they did think that they heard what might have been muffled screams or yelling, but they didn't hear much of it and didn't know where it was coming from, and so just kind of ignored it. But nobody heard anything else, not the Seabolts next door, not anyone else. Until they questioned.

Laylla: How do you not, how do you not hear that?

Chelle: Well, I guess if they gagged them all early enough, maybe they wouldn't have heard anything. And little boys sleep pretty soundly. So, you know, maybe if there was some thumping and some yelling, they could possibly have slept through it.

Laylla: Or just thought it was their parents fighting, maybe. They, they thought Mom was fighting with somebody. Maybe Dad came.

Chelle: Possibly. Now, Justin, Justin Eason, the boy that had been visiting, he later said he was awake, and he did see something, but he also said it might possibly have been a dream.

Laylla: How old was he?

Chelle: I think he was around eight or ten. He's the stepson of a man named Martin Smartt, who was one of the neighbors, who also happened to be one of the main suspects.

Laylla: Oh.

Chelle: When the investigators talked to Martin, he mentioned out of the blue that he had recently lost a hammer. Didn't know when. Right, like, like why would you volunteer? If you had a hammer missing, would you even know?

Laylla: I probably wouldn't know, and if someone just got bludgeoned to death with a hammer down the street, I probably would kind of keep that to myself, just saying.

Chelle: Justin Eason, the little boy that had spent the night, um, with Sue's two young sons. Now, he originally, like the other two boys, said that he had been sleeping, and later he said that he may have witnessed the murders, but he thought it had been a dream. And under hypnosis, which, now, I'm a certified hypnotist, and I would be the first one to tell you that memories under hypnosis are not reliable. We are not reliable chroniclers of things that we see and experience.

Laylla: Really?

Chelle: Yeah, we're we're really not good at that. You can ask anyone about eyewitness reports and things like that. We're we're just not good at it. Hypnosis is a wonderful tool to help you with all sorts of sorts of things, you know, help you get through some trauma, help you lose weight, help you learn to sleep better, help you love yourself better. It can help you with all sorts of things. And it can help you remember some things, but it's a better tool to help you put the past that you may remember into perspective. Anyway, I'm getting off topic. It's not a reliable tool, but they did use hypnosis on this boy to help him remember what had happened. Here's where things start to get weird. The police department decided to use a volunteer sketch artist who had no artistic ability and no training. He wasn't even an part of the police department. He was just a civilian who occasionally volunteered with them. They let him do the sketches of the two men that this boy said he had seen, even though the FBI, now the FBI was involved because Tina was missing, even though the FBI offered their own well-trained sketch artist, they went with this untrained volunteer.

Laylla: Something's weird about that right right from the get-go.

Chelle: Right from the get-go. And so they had a some information from this boy, and he said that Tina had come in and seen what had happened, and one of the men, that there were He said there were two men, and that Tina had come in and saw what was going on, and one of them took her out back, and then when he came back in, Tina wasn't with him. But that was the last anyone heard about her for a long time. And the FBI did investigate her disappearance, but after about a month with no leads and no clues, they pretty much dropped it.

Laylla: They just dropped it and were like, "Eh, whatever."

Chelle: Yes.

Laylla: That's what happens when you don't have family advocating for you, unfortunately. And that's shitty, but fucking true.

Chelle: She was a poor single mother, and they pretty much did not care. Now, the main suspect was Justin's stepfather.

Laylla: Well, yeah. And you said he lived near them?

Chelle: He did. He lived very close by. Martin Smartt, the stepfather of Justin Easson, was married to Marilyn, Justin's mother. And they all kind of They went to school with Sue. They had kind of, you know, they lived nearby, they also took some classes together, and they were they were somewhat friendly.

Laylla: Kind of like grew up together?

Chelle: No, no. She had moved here, remember, after being abused by her husband. So she kind of She met them from the neighborhood. So Martin and Marilyn were friends with Sue. Marilyn more so than Martin, because Martin was an ex-con who was reportedly very abusive to Marilyn. And from all accounts, Sue was trying to counsel Marilyn to leave Martin. And he, of course, was not happy at all. He also

Laylla: They never are. They never are.

Chelle: He also hated Sue's oldest son, John, and said that he was a little punk and thought he was a little jerk and just hated him.

Laylla: Were any of the kids his? Any of the younger kids?

Chelle: No.

Laylla: Okay.

Chelle: Nope. When Martin was questioned, he volunteered that he was missing a hammer. Just, "Oh, I'm missing a hammer. Don't know when I lost it." And the police chief is noted as saying that Martin was a very, a veritable font of tips. He had all this information and all these ideas that turned out to be true. And he It was always information that led away from him as being a suspect, according to this police chief.

Laylla: Which I think makes him more of a suspect, to be real.

Chelle: I think so, too. Now, Martin says his alibi was that he and his friend, Bo, this guy named Bo Boubede, Bo Bo- Bo- Boubede, Boubede, Boubede, I'm not really not sure how to say his last name. Bo

Laylla: We'll just We'll just call him Mr. Booby.

Chelle: Mr. Booby. So Bo Booby was living with Martin. And he says that he and his friend, Bo, had taken his wife, Marilyn, to a bar called the Backdoor Bar for some drinks. And that on the way, they'd stopped to ask Sue if she wanted some, and she said no, she was going to stay home. And they left, and that they said that was the last time they saw her. Now, people did report they saw them at the bar, and they were dressed Bo and Martin were dressed extremely flashily. Full-on suits, hair did, shoes shined, making a lot of noise about the music being too loud or not.

Laylla: Well, this was like the '80s, the early '80s, right? So they were going from that disco to that weird '80s vibe.

Chelle: Right. Some people also think that maybe after the murders, they went there to try and give themselves an alibi and wanted to make sure they were noticed. And they So they definitely did get noticed. No one saw his wife, Marilyn, however. And she contradicts his story. She says she went to bed, and he wasn't home, and she doesn't know where he was that night.

Laylla: Oh. Oh.

Chelle: She says Martin was abusive, kind of an asshole, and always getting in fights.

Laylla: So he is an asshole.

Chelle: He is. She left him. It gets worse and worse for this Martin guy. Marilyn left him like right around that same time.

Laylla: Oh.

Chelle: Now, the case goes cold.

Laylla: So he had a He has a lot of things on his plate that make him look suspicious.

Chelle: Very suspicious. He leaves right around She His wife leaves him, and he heads off, I believe, to Nevada, and Bo disappears as well.

Laylla: Oh.

Chelle: None of this is ever followed up on.

Laylla: Why?

Chelle: I I don't know. It's one of those cases where it seems like all these leads came and and nothing and nothing ever came of it. They just kind of dropped all these different things.

Laylla: Keystone Cop crazy bullshit. Like, you would almost have to wonder, is there someone in the police force that is a part of this or hiding or covering for somebody? Like, this sounds like the kind of shoddy police work you find on a TV show. Like, what's going on?

Chelle: It really does. And sadly, like I had mentioned before, the FBI did get involved trying to find Tina, but even they gave up after about a month, and everything just kind of stopped. About three years later, April in 1984, someone was hunting or mushroom hunting, the accounts vary, but someone was out in the woods.

Laylla: Uh-huh.

Chelle: Around near this place called Feather Falls, which is 50 to 100 miles, depending on which account you read, and they found a skull. A human skull.

Laylla: Oh.

Chelle: At around that same time, the Butte County Sheriff Department receives a tip. They get an anonymous phone call. The caller says, "You know those bones that you found that no one knows who they are? Well, do you remember that 12-year-old girl that went missing in Keddie a couple years ago? Maybe you should look into that."

Laylla: Oh, shit. Oh, shit. Anonymous?

Chelle: Anonymous.

Laylla: And back in the '80s, I don't think that the call tracing was what it is today.

Chelle: That call, the recording of that call, disappeared. But they did do some testing and found out that those bones were Tina Sharp's. Now,

Laylla: Where did that Did that phone call go into that same police station? Just curious.

Chelle: It did. Well, I'm not sure. It went into the Butte County Sheriff, and I'm not sure if that's the same sheriff's department that was searching or not. The medical examiner couldn't determine exactly when she had died or how because the remains were pretty much just bones.

Laylla: Probably the animals up in there.

Chelle: Yeah, all they found were some bones, a nylon jacket, some jeans, and um an empty tape dispenser. Oh. And everyone had been tied up kind of like with electrical tape. I mean, the tape dispenser makes me think it probably happened pretty soon, but why was she 100 miles away from the scene of the murder? Anyway, they determined it was Tina Sharp, and somehow this and the coroner felt that she had possibly died six months, six months after the murder. So they The coroner thinks that she was possibly alive for a period of time before she was killed, and she was obviously transported at least 50, if not 100 miles away from her home. So that part is extremely mysterious, and no one knows what happened with that.

Laylla: It definitely has to be, in my opinion, like someone who knew knew the family.

Chelle: Right, the door wasn't forced. There were no signs of forced entry, nothing was stolen. Now, the case kind of went cold even after they realized that that was Tina's body. Nothing nothing came of it. In 2004, the infamous cabin number 28 where the Keddie murders took place was demolished in 2004, and there's not much left of the resort, Keddie Resort, at all.

Laylla: Probably a good thing.

Chelle: In 2013, the case was reopened. Some new investigators, um Sheriff Greg Hagwood and special investigator Mike Gamberg, found some evidence that none of the initial investigators had even bothered to look into, had even bothered to find. They, in this pile, treasure trove of evidence, they found a letter that Marilyn, Martin Smartt's wife, had written or had received from Martin.

Laylla: Oh. Oh.

Chelle: After she After she left him, he was pissed. He had been trying, you know, abusive dude, he wants to keep his punching bag around, right?

Laylla: Right.

Chelle: In this letter that they found, it Martin wrote, quote, "I've paid the price for your love, and now I've bought it with four lives, and you tell me we're through? Great."

Laylla: Oh, shit.

Chelle: Also, in 2016, one of those investigators, Gamberg, found a hammer in a pond in Keddie that they believe was the one that Martin had been missing.

Laylla: And that would have been pre-DNA testing, correct?

Chelle: Yes, yeah, back when the murders were committed, it was. Yeah, they didn't have any of that information. They did find some DNA on on some of the tape. They found a finger- a partial fingerprint and some DNA on some of the tape. I don't know if it's enough to crack the case.

Laylla: Right, yeah.

Chelle: But even more evidence now points towards Martin because in 2016, one of his uh counselors, I guess he was um he was getting counseling at like the Veterans Administration, and that counselor states that Martin had confessed to him that he had committed those murders just a few weeks after they'd happened. I I know that there's a whole thing of of like confidentiality and everything, but I didn't realize it extended to like murder.

Laylla: Oh, neither did I.

Chelle: But Martin says that he killed he killed the he killed Sue and her daughter, Tina. But he he says, even up He said at the time he didn't kill the guys. So I guess he's trying to say that Bo killed the two boys, John and his friend, Dana. I don't know. And and according to this counselor, he says that Martin told him that he killed the girl because she had witnessed things, which kind of lines up with what Justin had said. Now, both Martin and Bo are deceased. And so we'll never really know. And there's some speculation that maybe they were some type of informant, like Bo was involved in some type of drug group, and he had special

Laylla: And that's why the cops kind of brushed stuff over.

Chelle: And that's why things kind of got hidden and brushed over.

Laylla: Wow.

Chelle: You know, so who knows? It's Is Marilyn still alive?

Laylla: I don't know. You know, I imagine she probably is. I would have to check into that. But, you know, the the kids were doing okay for a while as far as last I as far as I was able to track them. I didn't track them too far into their adulthood, but, you know, they did go live with relatives from what I understand.

Chelle: Yeah, because that would have been 30 years ago, so they'd be well into their adulthood at this point.

Laylla: You know, at the time that it happened, it was interesting because it was just such a mystery. This little girl goes missing, it kind of looks like a kidnapping. If they were going to kill her, why didn't they leave her there? Why did they take her with them? And did Justin see it, and his stepfather was like, "Go back to bed, you didn't see anything"? I mean, or did he really just because of the brutality of it and remembering it, he started dreaming it and having some type of PTSD, which would be completely understandable? Or did he actually witness it? Why weren't those three boys killed? I have so many questions, Laylla.

Laylla: I feel like the police, for whatever reason, created some sort of cover-up. You you can't have You can't have a sheriff's office make that many mistakes and lose that many things.

Chelle: That's right. And and there were so many dropped balls here. It almost seems like they didn't either they didn't care because she was a welfare mom, you know, single mom with five kids, and who cares about the poor mom?

Laylla: When you've got no family breathing down your neck for a resolution as well.

Chelle: Right, and what are these little kids going to do? They're not going to pressure the police to do anything. It's just a very, very small town. I think I saw somebody's YouTube video about it, I believe said that Keddie is a town of 66 people.

Laylla: Oh, wow.

Chelle: And that's just very tiny. You know, who maybe they just didn't care. Or maybe those guys were part of some sort of wit- not witness protection, but maybe they had some sort of immunity because they were turning evidence on other crimes.

Laylla: I have another theory. I have another theory. You know me and my crazy theories.

Chelle: I want to hear it. What's the crazy Laylla theory? Give it to me.

Laylla: So you're talking Northern California.

Chelle: Yes.

Laylla: I have never been to California. I just know what I see on TV. But I have watched some of these shows about the Emerald Triangle and some of the crazy stuff that goes on there where cops are afraid and just kind of look the other way because there are citizens that really run certain areas more so than the police. You know what I'm talking about.

Chelle: I have heard that, you know, and and we did talk about that a little bit with Lisa Ann, our guest on episode 20. And there is a lot of crimes, and they say that because of the denseness of the forest and everything up there and how spread out these towns are, sometimes you you never know. People can go missing, and you would never know. And in this particular case, there just wasn't enough evidence.

Laylla: But could this be a similar case where you've got this in the middle of Jesus's ass crack nowhere in the woods where like your cop, your local town cop, the sheriff, is also like the butcher and like the barber and probably the postman as well? And like his wife is probably like the midwife and the shopkeeper. It might not be what we consider a sheriff's department. You know what I'm saying? It could be very in the middle of nowhere, like what you think of when you hear the stuff about the Emerald Triangle area, which is also in that area.

Chelle: Yeah, exactly. And maybe there was a drug aspect here. You know, there were rumors that John's friend, Dana, and possibly even John himself were involved in some sort of drug trafficking. They're pretty sure that Booby Bo was involved in drug trafficking himself, possibly out of Chicago or some other big gangs. There were rumors that he was involved in things like that. So, I mean, could it have been a drug deal gone wrong? Maybe. Could Martin have been pissed off at Sue because she was trying to get his wife to leave him? That kind of seems pretty logical. I mean, they have practically a written confession in that letter where he said that in order to try and keep her, four people paid with their lives. And he confessed to his counselor, which wasn't even found out until years later. I don't know. Just seems like a a lot of dropped balls, but very mysterious. I still don't believe what happened to Tina. That's just so strange to me.

Laylla: It it, you know, whole different podcast, but it's stories like this that makes you kind of lose faith in investigators and detectives.

Chelle: And stories like this just kind of emphasize, you know, with the West Memphis Three and other cases where we will now never know what happened because of how shoddy things were treated, maybe because they didn't care, or they got a prejudice right away, or were shoddily trained, or different podcast.

Laylla: Different podcast. Not our vibe, not our podcast. So, in the spirit of cheering things up, Miss Bong Smoker,

Chelle: Yes, please do.

Laylla: You know, I just want to kind of go back to a couple of ideas that that we talked about before we talked about our stories. We've kind of had an interesting an interesting show tonight. Usually, we're both super chipper and thrilled and like, I don't know, it's almost like we're like Mercury retrograde Downer Debby's today. So, I think we should we should end our session today with talking about something a little more fun.

Chelle: I agree. We need to bring a little light into everything right now.

Laylla: We do, we do. And, you know, you kind of joked about we should do a little spell at the end, um your little spell joke. But in all reality, we got another holiday coming up. Another another another tick on that wheel. I don't know why I started saying tick on the wheel. I don't know where that came from.

Chelle: You've said that for a very long time, and it's just a Laylla-ism.

Laylla: It is, it is. I even make up my own words, folks. So, another tick on the wheel is coming, and I wanted to kind of give folks, because the weather is is more progressed than the calendar currently, some ideas on on how you can kind of celebrate the changing season. It's not the summer solstice yet, we get that, we know when it is, trust us.

Chelle: But it's rising. It's the rising summer solstice.

Laylla: It is, and but but we're getting into that season shift, and not everybody experiences the same seasons as us. But when you're going from like dead-ass winter to like some spring-summer combo, it's like life is good again. There's something about the sun, the warmth, the lack of layers of clothes. We're we're making a good shift. And yeah, it's Mercury retrograde, but that shit comes and goes, it ebbs and flows, it's like the tides.

Chelle: For me, it's about the growing things. Now, my garden is established, my outside plants are blooming. I I find a lot of solace in going outside and in growing things, in in doing crafts with my kids, in in being out in nature where people are. And sometimes we need those touchstones, especially now when things are so scary and so sad and so violent. You know, we kind of need to breathe that fresh air, you know, watch some flowers grow, be with the people that we love, and, you know, do the things that we enjoy right now.

Laylla: You know what I did today? And I haven't been able to do this for a long time, weather-wise. You know I hate the cold. I hate the cold. I am like the only person on the planet who lives in the freaking Northeast that hates cold.

Laylla: I think there's more of you than you think.

Chelle: I think in another life, I think in a past life, I must have lived in Hawaii. I had some time all by myself today, and I had some errands to run. I had some stuff to do. And I was like, "Hey, I'm out of the house, and I'm driving around, and I'm all by myself," which generally doesn't happen terribly often. Not that I'm complaining, just a fact. I was like, "Well, how can I waste x amount of time?" I found myself, after having that thought, parked on the side of the road at the beach. Because you know what? When you got nothing better to do and you live in Salem, Massachusetts, get your happy ass to the ocean.

Laylla: Oh, man. The beach is such a nice place. That's one of my happy places, too. I love it so much.

Chelle: And, you know, being a a native New Yorker, everybody in New York goes to the Thousand Islands. I don't know. It's a thing. We all go to the St. Lawrence River. It's a thing. And growing up my whole life going up there, I got fascinated by the big ocean liners, and I always called them big boats. Um, as you're aware, I've even had paintings and photographs of big boats all throughout my house throughout the years.

Laylla: Yes. You've always loved that place.

Chelle: I just I don't know what it is. I don't know what it is about those damn boats. I was sitting at the beach today, and three big boats out in the ocean. It was low tide, which is weird around here. I feel like low tide is like 30 ft lower than high tide, even though like

Laylla: All I can think of with low tide is um Monsters, Inc. The when they look for the colognes, he's like, "You got any wet dog or low tide?" That's all I can hear now when I hear the words low tide.

Chelle: But I I because it was the middle of the day and I was driving around, I did not have the opportunity to smoke and get high at the beach. Um, but but but there is something to be said to just take in a minute. Take a minute, people. Everybody needs a minute, especially right now. Take a damn minute.

Laylla: I like that. Just take a minute.

Chelle: I can't think of how many minutes there are in a 24-hour period, but you can take a minute to just kind of

Laylla: Sometimes it feels like, especially now, there are not enough minutes, but you're right. If that's what we can do, that's what we can do. You got to do what you can do.

Chelle: And you know, there's people out there, we all have motivation issues on on on occasion, and we all procrastinate stuff, and sometimes you say you're going to donate, but you never get around to it. You say you're going to donate, and then your tire's flat and you can't afford it. You know, you can do nice things without it costing. Like,

Laylla: Exactly. You can only do what you can do, and and sometimes money is not a thing you can do.

Chelle: And you know, you and I live in very hustle and bustle locations where traffic is a whore. There, I said it, people. Traffic, it's a whore.

Laylla: The bane of my existence.

Chelle: It is. And you know, sometimes maybe you can't donate to an organization, but you could let someone pull out in front of you without being an asshole. Wave them on. Let them out.

Laylla: Check on your neighbor. See how they're doing. You know, see if the elderly person down the street needs help with some groceries or cutting their lawn, you know, things we used to do back in the day.

Chelle: Hold a damn door, for God's sakes. Baby steps here, people. Baby steps.

Laylla: Yeah. And if you can't donate money, donate your time. Volunteer. Do things in your neighborhood to help out as much as you can. We we got to look out for each other, people. We got to take care of each other.

Chelle: Everybody says they don't ever want their voice taken away. You take your own voice away when you don't use it. Vote. Oh, well, I wasn't going on the vote thing, but vote.

Laylla: That's a good way to use your voice. Vote.

Chelle: But for all you high people out there that are just as high as us, it's not time to vote yet, just so you know. You got to

Laylla: Oh, actually, I'm voting. We're doing primaries here in California, so partial voting. Some places are voting, but when you can, vote. Anyway, but yes, good stuff. And I'm going to uh I'm going to smoke some kind bud, I'm going to hug my children, and I'm going to go look and see if there's anything in my local community that I can volunteer and do. Because my brain will not let me stop until I do something.

Chelle: I would volunteer to test marijuana right now.

Laylla: Ooh, I would volunteer to I want to volunteer to do that.

Chelle: I, you know, like give it a rating system. Like, I'm all over that.

Laylla: You have to look out, you know, every once in a while, I get a wild, crazy idea, and I think I want to apply to one of these jobs where you like review pot. You know, you go, you buy it, and then you review it. Wouldn't that be fun? I don't think I'm a good enough writer to do it. I just be like every single every single strain, every cultivar, I'd be like, "It's so good. It tastes so good. You should smoke this. It's great." That's all. That'd be every review. Like, "Yes, it's good." And that's it. That's all I'd be able to say.

Chelle: Before we close today, folks, I just want to say next time, next episode, I will be a year older, potentially wiser, and definitely higher.

Laylla: Happy high birthday, Chelle. Happy high motherfucking birthday. I hope you enjoy it. I hope you have some amazing bud. I hope you have a lot of fun with that boyfriend and get outside and do some fun things. Go camping and make plans, definitely, talk that man into festivals. Come on, we got to go to pagan festivals this summer. You got to come stay with me.

Chelle: This is the DJ, Lee.

Laylla: Who doesn't want a live show straight from a pagan festival? I know there's ghosts out there. Oh, my gosh, how many fun interviews could we do at Brushwood?

Chelle: Oh, my God, it would be so great, so great. And and so many great people at Brushwood, too.

Laylla: So many great people. So, yes, we'll have another episode for you next week at 4:20 a.m. We'll definitely be very high and have some spooky, spooky things. And hopefully, we'll have good news about Chelle going to Brushwood.

Chelle: Smoke a bong, folks.

Laylla: Stay high, stay spooky. See you next time. Thank you for listening to Laylla and Chelle at The Stoned Witches Hour. We'll see you next week.
