Laylla: Welcome to Back on the Broomstick, a modern witches' spoken word grimoire, where two witchy friends from way back are reconnecting to their pagan roots after a long period of mundanity. We're rewalking the path of the wise and trying out all the latest spells, rituals, and magical theory in today's witchcraft and pagan practices. So grab your wand and your incense, your cauldron and your crystals, and join us as we get back on the broomstick.

Laylla: Hi, and welcome to Back on the Broomstick. I'm Laylla.

Chelle: And I'm Chelle.

Laylla: And today we have a very special guest for you. She is an international bestselling author and the most widely published witch Wiccan priestess in the world. Her YouTube series, What is Wicca, has millions of views. She also has an online course called Awaken the Witch Within. She is the founder of the Temple of Ara and continues to train clergy in that tradition. Her tarot deck, The Witches' Wisdom Tarot, is about to be re-released, and her most recent book, Spells for Living Well: A Witch's Guide for Manifesting Change, Well-being, and Wonder, is currently on my desk. She has numerous awards, honors, and articles, way too many to list here, and she is currently the program chair of the Parliament of World Religions. We would love to welcome Phyllis Curott to the show. Hi, Phyllis.

Phyllis: Hi, Laylla. What a pleasure to be here. Thank you very much for doing this show, especially before the Parliament.

Laylla: Oh my gosh, I am so very excited about the Parliament of World Religions this year, and I was thrilled several months ago to stumble upon a video of you with your call to conscience when you, that very rousing speech, inspired me to volunteer, actually. We're very, very excited about it.

Chelle: As much as we are blessed, Phyllis, this, I have to, I have to talk about this Parliament here because I found out a great fun fact, not only about the event itself, but about your particular role in this a few years back. In 1993, as, as fate would have it, I have found out that you were the first officer of the Covenant of the Goddess, and you went to Parliament, and you kind of created a couple of controversies. Do you want to just talk real quick about that because I find, I find great correlation between where you were in 1993 at Parliament and where you are today in your role in the Parliament that's coming up in the next week or so?

Phyllis: So interesting. Yeah. So you never know, right? It washed. So, yeah, 1993, I was the first officer of the Covenant of the Goddess, and off we went to the Parliament with a bunch of folks from COG and members of other communities, EarthSpirit, Circle Sanctuary, of course, Selena Fox, Andras Corban, both of whom were very involved, and Andras, sadly, no longer, but Selena continues to be. And there were about 50 of us, quite a number of folks from the Chicago pagan community. We got there. It turns out that there had been a problem. We had not made a proper application to the city to get a permit in order to do a, basically, a full moon ritual in Grant Park in the public as part of our participation at the Parliament. It was remarkable that we were there, that there was somebody on the board who knew what witches actually were, who Wiccans really are, and what pagans really believe and practice, and so they made sure that we were able to get in and that a number of our programs were accepted for presentation, which was just a blessing, right? Because truly, if you think that there's still, you know, distorted stereotypes today, 30 years ago, 30 years worse, I mean, 600 years worse, right?

Laylla: Mhm.

Chelle: I heard you were boycotted by the Greek and Russian Orthodox as well.

Phyllis: Yes. So what, so we arrived, and the, the Greek Orthodox Church left, and they were quite explicit that they were not going to be there if there were witches present and if there were pagans present. And I gather there was an effort by the Parliament board to try to keep them, and they refused to stay, and they left. And so that was controversy number one that got a ton of publicity. And the second one was our ritual because our permit wasn't in place. I went to get the permit fixed, and the city refused. And I said, "You can't refuse. You've granted okay's to all these other religions to hold things in the, you can't refuse us just because you don't know who and what we're about and you have all these negative stereotypes in your eyes." And they were like, "Yeah, no, well, actually, we can, and we're not going to give you a permit." And I spent about half the rest of the Parliament fighting them. I brought in the ACLU, which I was a member of and had been on the board of, and, you know, I know they are staunch allies, especially when it comes to freedom of religion and freedom of speech. They climbed on board, and together we were able to get the permit and to go ahead with the ritual. So that got a ton of publicity. It was really our emergence onto the global stage because we were getting all this press largely because of controversy, but which taught me a lot of lessons, if you want press, you know, controversy.

Chelle: But I feel like you spent that whole Parliament fighting for inclusion, and now you're coming full circle, 30 years later, you are the chair of Parliament, and let, please let us know what the topic of this year's Parliament is.

Phyllis: Okay. Well, I'm not the chair of the, of the board of trustees. I'm the program chair.

Chelle: Program chair, program chair.

Phyllis: But, but, um, yeah, but a huge, basically, huge responsibility. It's been 30 years of working with the Parliament and serving as a trustee. Um, in 2015, I created the inaugural Women's Assembly and the Women's Plenary, Women's Task Force, and had to fight like heck to open that space. But it was the only way that I could see that we were going to get the Goddess on stage, right? And that we were going to get Wiccans and witches and pagans on stage because it wasn't happening in the other plenaries. And it worked, and it also changed the Parliament, and it opened up the community of the Parliament to the voices of women. Women make up 65% of the attendees at the Parliament. I, when I, after that, I was done. I was like, "I'm done." They asked me to come back. I came back, and I said, "Okay." They asked me to serve as program chair, and I said, "Okay, but if we're going to do this," I did it for the online, I served as program chair for the online convening two years ago. "If we're going to do this, we have to have the courage of our convictions, and that means that we have to stand up as an interfaith community, individually as practitioners of faiths, whatever those faiths may be, and collectively in mutual support, we have to stand up together, and we have to say no to this spread of global fascism." And I thought the board would say, "No." But they agreed, and so, you know, put the bell on the cat. So that's what we've been doing, and it's going to be a very, very strong program where there's going to be a lot of straight-on, straight talk about white Christian nationalism, about racism, about the spread of fascism and autocracy at home here where we are, in Poland, in Hungary, in Turkey, in India, now in Israel, obviously in Russia.

Chelle: It is a global issue.

Phyllis: It is a global issue, and what is missing from the conversation is the moral leadership of religious leaders. And at the heart of, one of, one of the key strategies, they use lies, they use propaganda, I mean, there are all these different strategies that fascists use in order to gain power. And one of them, tried and true, hideous, grotesque, and utterly reliable, is othering, is to find the scapegoat. And that was us, right? It was women, it was witches, it was pagans, it was other indigenous traditions. Find the other and demonize them and, and use fear and confusion and tribalism and, and anger and direct it at the scapegoat so that they do not know who is actually their enemy. And, and so it's close to home, right? Because we are, we continue to be a persecuted faith, and with the rise of white Christian nationalists, which is just a long way of saying neo-Nazis or Nazis, that's the long way of saying Nazis, in this country, who are being legitimized by Donald Trump, we're back in their sights again. I mean, we never left the sights fully of the evangelicals, but it's, they're becoming very aggressive again and demonizing us. And so it's essential. We need the allies that we've cultivated over the years in, in the interfaith community. And everyone of every faith, our fates are intertwined, and we need each other.

Laylla: Very much so.

Phyllis: So this is, this is a chance to speak up.

Chelle: Do you feel we've taken a step back as far as inclusion?

Phyllis: Where? At, at the Parliament or culturally?

Chelle: Just, just culturally.

Phyllis: Sure. You know, one of the things that, I mean, it's a more complex conversation.

Laylla: It is, yes.

Phyllis: Sure is, yes. That, that there are people, right, who, who have traditionally been privileged, but it's a dubious privilege for working-class white males. My father, who was a union organizer and very progressive, was a working-class guy and made a, a small income, worked incredibly hard, was physically and emotionally damaged by, because his shift changed every two weeks. His skin gave him tremendous privilege over a Black person doing the same work, but he was hardly privileged. He was, you know.

Chelle: Perception of privilege.

Phyllis: It's all relative, and those who are truly privileged manipulate the feelings of, um, disenfranchisement that a white majority has had in this country for a long time, and they manipulate it, and they exploit it, and they shift attention away from those who are actually exploiting them to Blacks and Browns and immigrants and others, right? It's the othering class. It's their fault, and you're, you're getting less because of them, not because of us, because we broke your unions and made it too expensive for you to send your kids to school and, and pumped opioids into your communities after we sent the factories, you know, overseas. Oh, it's not us. It's, you know, it's because of the other. So, yeah, it's an old strategy, and it always works. And, um, and when you try to argue for solidarity, you come up against, uh, racism and misogyny and fear. It's hard. It's, it's, it's really, it's, it's very, you know, it's not easy. If it was easy, things would be different.

Laylla: It's true, and I think that's why we need things like the Parliament. As I was going through the, the different workshops and plenaries and people who are speaking, I'm very much loving the diversity. There's so many different people, cultures, religions represented, all looking for answers to social justice problems, answers to climate change, answers to the authoritarianism. And one of the things that I was very happy to see is a very strong pagan presence throughout the entire thing because we are so tied to the Earth. We are so tied to these different social justice movements, and I've been hearing people thanking you and the Parliament for including these because I think it has been a need. It has been a want for people to see this because, uh, paganism for varied reasons has become very, very popular lately. People are hungry for this type of connection with the Earth, with each other, and I, I think hosting things like the Parliament and having that inclusion there is a wonderful way for people to see that representation and really hopefully start to take those lessons home with them and to, um, you know, maybe make some changes on a smaller scale once they get back home. So, I'm very much looking forward to that.

Phyllis: It's a, it's one of, it's, I mean, it's one of the most important platforms in the world, right, in, in terms of religious dialogue and interfaith dialogue. And it was incredibly important for us to be there, um, because we were so misunderstood, and we still are, but it's an opportunity for people to discover who and what we're really all about, for us to share that. Um, from a, sort of spiritual movement point of view, it also requires us to up our game. Because when you're in these communities, these are people who have seminaries, these are people who have, you know, rigorous training programs, these are people who can talk about their theologies, you know, this is, you got to up your game. And I think it's helped. I think it's helped us mature, uh, to, to become even more committed to our own faiths and to practice them with more devotion and coherence and to become ambassadors to the outer world. I mean, I've been doing this, I've been a witch, gee, was for 44 years since I was initiated, something like that, 43 years, 44 years.

Laylla: You were one of the first to speak up.

Phyllis: Yeah, me, it was me and Margot.

Laylla: Yeah.

Phyllis: Selena. Yeah. That was it. There was three of us that were public, and, I mean, Starhawk was pagan, but she, I, was public, but she was public within, you know, the community as opposed to in the mainstream.

Laylla: Right.

Phyllis: Um, so watching us mature in this larger company, I mean, it's, it's good for us, and we bring these values of the divine feminine, of the importance of women as spiritual leaders, of the immanence of the divine, of the innate divinity of the natural world and the relationship that we have to have to remedy, that we have to heal, right? Um, I do think that we need a stronger presence in the climate action task force and in the climate action plenaries or assemblies and programming. There's some, but there's not enough. But there's good, we have about 30 pagan programs, which include, you know, the, our central spiritual principles, that reverence for the Earth, and, and we have a whole bunch of rituals, um, and rites and ceremonies on the sacredness of Mother Earth and honoring the, how to honor the four directions, and there's going to be a full moon ritual down by the banks of the Lake Michigan, right in sight of the indigenous fires that are kept.

Laylla: I'm bringing in my drum.

Phyllis: Yeah, and there's going to be a maiden and a mother and a croning ritual in the women's sacred space, which is always very pagan. And there are altars. There's going to be an altar to Mother Earth, and there's going to be an altar to the divine feminine and to the Goddess, and, and we're going to have a strong presence throughout. Gusty Sereega, um, who is a Gardnerian, uh, high priest, third degree, has been around for a long time, brilliant scholar, wonderful soul, I invited him to be, um, the other pagan, uh, plenary speaker. So he'll be speaking in community, and I read his talk, and it's great. Um, and, uh, Laura Gonzalez, uh, is going to give, um, who is both, uh, Mexican American and, uh, Wiccan, is going to give a prayer in the opening plenary. So, very excited about that.

Laylla: I'm so excited. I'm so thrilled about all of these programs, and you've been on everything lately. You're very busy. I've heard you've been on podcasts and YouTube channels and interviews, and I was listening to one of them recently. It was the, um, Magnify Your Miracles podcast with Reverend Frances Fayden, and you said something that keeps ringing in my head. You said, "The world needs her witches," and I cannot stop thinking about that phrase. And, and seeing all these social justice pagan programming, climate change pagan programming at the Parliament of World Religions, it just really helps to magnify that idea and that thought, and I, it just resonates so strongly with me.

Phyllis: Thank you. That's my phrase, "The world needs her witches." It's true. It's just true, and she does. She needs us, right?

Laylla: She does, and I think more of us need to get involved and, and be active. And I, I'm very grateful that I have the privilege to be able to, everything kind of fell into place to be able to go and volunteer, which is wonderful, as magical things are want to do, you know, things just kind of happen when it's supposed to happen that way. But not everybody is privileged enough to be able to go to something like this, to, to get involved like that. And hopefully we can find some ways, you know, through these podcasts, through your book, your classes, to, to get involved a little bit more locally. Now, I, I know you have a class coming up. You're going to be teaching a masterclass?

Phyllis: Oh, wow. They sent you that. Yes. Yep. I am doing a masterclass, which is composed of the two programs that were, there are three programs, essentially. We, we left behind the constraints of the coven structure about 20 years ago because you cannot build a movement with 13 people studying for three years. You just, it's, you're never going to grow at a rate that's going to have an impact on the world, that is going to bring the wisdom and the teachings and the practices, right, and the values that we hold into the world to have an impact. It, and, and, you know, I was just, you know, I'm talking to her and him, and they were very clear, right? Covens are good. Not saying that, you know, you should have them, everybody should have them, but that's not the way you're going to do what needs to get done.

Chelle: Create large-scale change.

Phyllis: Exactly. And so, um, and also I was traveling to Europe a lot because all my books were coming out all over Europe. I mean, all over, Slovakia, Belarus, I, Wicca, Wicca Made Easy or The Spell Book is out in China now, right?

Laylla: Well, we can, we can relate on a small scale because our podcast is number one in Gambia. Ah, yeah.

Phyllis: Ah, you're number one. Hi, Gambia.

Laylla: Shout out to you.

Phyllis: So, so I was like, "Okay, so how are we going to do this?" We're going to create a class that anybody can take. And the other thing I've been saying for a very long time, if you work it, it'll work, and you don't have to be a witch for our practices to work for you. You don't have to be Hindu to practice yoga or Buddhist to meditate. You don't have to be a witch to understand and to experience the grace of casting a circle, of honoring the directions, of any of our practices that reconnect you to the magic of creation, to the divine energies of, that are, that are, right, that are embodied by creation. And so I started teaching. So, so I have three classes, basically. One is, I call it the wand, and it's the active principles, right? And it's the do, you know, this is how you honor the four directions. This is how you cast a circle. This is how you set up an altar. This is what it means to be an altar. This is how you invoke beginning to, this is how you honor the four directions. This is how you cast a circle. This is how you set up an altar. This is what it means to be an altar. This is how you invoke, beginning to, how, this is how you honor the divine. This is how you make magic with the elements. So, it's very structural, fundamental practices, tools, and techniques.

Laylla: Like a 101 class.

Phyllis: Kind of like a 101, but, you know, the way I teach, nothing's ever a 101. It's a very shamanic orientation, which has been integrated into my practice since 1982. I have a particular orientation in how I do it. Um, so, it's like a 101, but it's, you know, it's, it's, with a aura, right? It's, it's, yeah. And then, it's followed by, so, six weeks of that, followed by six weeks of the Grail work. And the Grail work is, are the receptive practices. So, it's altered states of consciousness, divination, shamanic journeying, and working with, um, spirits of place, which was an instruction that I received from them about how to recast us, and then, the creation of ritual, um, that is, that is a creation that comes out of your relationship with the spirits of place. So, it's, rather than it being ritual as a creation of your intention, it's the creation of ritual as an expression of communion. It's a very,

Laylla: Oh, I like that.

Phyllis: incredibly powerful. And so, the, so, you're pulling together all of the things you've learned in the first set, in the wand segment, the things, the skills you've developed in the, in the Grail, and then, we culminate with this, uh, very powerful. And I like, that's always done in person, but we're doing this online, uh, because you can. You know, you adapt, and you change, and if you want to change the world, then you change how you're communicating. So, we're doing it online, and, yeah, I'll start it, most likely, in October. Um, I'm excited. So, it's 12 weeks. I'm not sure yet whether it'll be continuous, or whether it'll be six weeks with a break, and then, six weeks. It's, uh, it's not an overwhelming amount of work. It's a 2-hour class every week, and then, work, and work in a circle with other people so that you're getting feedback. So, you, you know, you have to be willing to commit some, at least, I would say, 4 hours a week, um, over the course of 6 weeks, probably break, 6 weeks. Um, first round will be, um, more accessible because I'm going to be working a few things out because it's online. And if you want to be initiated, um, it's a requirement, but you don't, you know, that doesn't have to be the reason you take it. The reason that you take it is because you want to learn, you're curious, and you've never done this. You, you, you've been doing it, and you want to deepen your practice. You've been doing it in a different style or tradition, and you've heard, you know, that I have a particular shamanic orientation towards the work, and, and what I say makes sense to you, and you want to expand your skills in that way. It's, uh, I'm excited. I'm really excited to do it.

Laylla: It sounds like a wonderful course. All three of them sound like really great courses. And your, your YouTube channel, you have some wonderful videos there, and also, I, I love your Instagram. Follow your Instagram. You have great little snippets of things there, you know, definitely a fun way. But, you know, I, I'm very much enjoying your book. Um, the most recent, we have all of them, you know, we remember you from back, um,

Phyllis: Back in the day.

Laylla: Yeah. And, um, so, Spells for Living Well is your current book, and it's one that I have been using with my, uh, with my 17 and 20-year-old daughters, who are also very much, and it has been fabulous for that. So, we are very much enjoying it to work together and kind of, for me to get back into my practice, and for my, my children to kind of learn and grow in the practice. So, thank you very much for that book. It's wonderful.

Phyllis: I didn't intend to do a spell book, but the publisher came to me, and I said, "I have a very different perspective on spells, you know. I'm not twitching my nose and pulling levers, and grinding bat's eyeballs. I mean, you understand that, right?" They're like, "No, that's why we want you to do it." Um, because for me, um, I mean, I started out in that very traditional kind of patriarchal magical way of like, that a, you know, that a spell is a way of, of, uh, you know, using your intention and your willpower to manipulate unseen forces and get what you want. And after, uh, you know, and very often that worked, and very often not in the ways you expected, and a lot of times it didn't, and there were lessons to be learned even when it did work. And gradually, really, was writing Book of Shadows, the very first book, that made me really, really, really reflect on what magic truly is, because when I wanted to write about my experiences as a young lawyer, who in the million years could never imagine becoming a witch, I wanted to bring people into that experience, right? So, they could feel that they were present, and feel that they were encountering the divine goddess, and like, and feel that their, their powers were expanding. I realized that magic wasn't about manipulating, right? That magic was about opening yourself to the flow of this extraordinary, life-generating, spirit-manifesting, magic, power, grace, that, that will work with you, you know, if you ask it to. And it's a different posture. It's, yeah, sometimes you have to throw, you know, you got to like, stamp your feet and yell real, you know, the old cartoon of like, hit the donkey in the head with the stick, and the guy goes, "What are you doing that?" And he says, "I got to get his attention," you know. Sometimes it feels like spellcasting the Italian style. You got to smack the spirits to get its attention. But really, mostly, when you open your heart, and you ask for the, the blessings, the connections, the energy of air, and water, and fire, and earth, and, and spirit to come to you, and to help you achieve a life that's healthy, and happy, and meaningful, right? Where, where your purpose is revealed to you, and shown to you, and then, the guidance is offered to you to find your path to that purpose, and the way to embody that purpose, the magic starts flowing. The synchronicities happen, right? And the, the gifts appear, and the unexpected manifests, and you don't have to cast a spell because you're, you're getting in harmony with the great magic

Chelle: Doors open on their own.

Phyllis: all around you. Yeah, so, that's my approach to spellcasting, and I wanted to try to capture that in this book, and, and so, you, you're using it, so you know, so there are traditional practices that I have sort of rephrased as spells, but it's all, it's all about the practice of opening your mind, and your heart, and your body to the flow of the magic of creation.

Laylla: Yeah, it's all about participating and being within that. And I, you, you said on your bio that you took a little time to apprentice with Mother Earth, and that's, it's all about getting kind of reconnected and, and just stepping into that flow. You know, magic is, is participating in rather than controlling. And, and I think that's beautiful.

Phyllis: I mean, you know, it's not about not shaping. You're not totally passive, right? Um, you're not a stone in the river, you know, you're swimming in the river. Um, and you have,

Laylla: It's participatory.

Phyllis: Yeah, and you're allowed to pick a, pick a goal, you know, and ask the river to help get you there, and it will. Um, I think one of the differences is that I was sort of taught like, and I, and I, it's, I think we have that language still in witchcraft, like, use air, and every once in a while, it'll come out of my mouth, and I'm like, "Oh, yeah, that, well, because that was 20 years of training." Use water to cleanse and purify. And now, it's like, "No, not using." That's the old exploitative, you know, um, domineering, extracting, patriarchal,

Laylla: Partner with.

Phyllis: right? Yeah.

Laylla: Partner with air, partner with water, partner with earth. Yes.

Phyllis: Work with. Work with. Ask for what you need rather than demanding. It's a different, it's a reverent posture. And, I mean, we're, we're ancient, but we're new, right? So, and we don't have, uh, sem- well, we do have a seminary, but, but we, we have the teacher. We have the same teacher as our ancestors. We have spirit, and we have, and most particularly, we have spirit embodied by the natural world. And when we ask, it shows itself to us, and it shows us how to live, and it shows us, it shows us its magic. So, that was my, you know, that was my time that I took off was to put down what I thought I knew, put down the way that I used to practice, bring myself into apprenticeship with creation, and ask to be taught what I needed to know, which is how we created the Witches Wisdom Tarot by asking, "What is it that the world needs to know that other tarot decks haven't shared?" And, and I used shamanic journeying as the method, and the answers were really extraordinary, and the deck really works in the presence, the energy, the, the benevolent spirits, most of them revealing themselves to us through earth, through the forms of creation. It's so, it sees us as we are with all our flaws and imperfections, right? Which are massive at this stage of 5,000 years of a distorted, right, think about who we are more, but it's so willing to bring us home, to show us how to get there. And that's,

Laylla: It's a beautiful deck.

Phyllis: Thank you.

Laylla: And, and I'm very excited that it's being re-released in a slightly smaller version. I know some people like the smaller version, but I love the different imagery on it, that it's not your traditional, it has reimagined some of these ideas to make it more rounder, I'm not sure how to, softer, more, more accepting, more inclusive, more beautiful. Uh, I, I'm, um, it, it, it's a very beautiful deck, and so, I'm, I'm looking forward to getting it when it comes out and re-released. When is it being released?

Phyllis: Thank you. We, we should do another show. Yes. In, uh, October, the end of October.

Laylla: Perfect.

Phyllis: Yeah, so, if you want the fancy-dancy one with the bag and the magical box and all that stuff, you got to get it now. It'll be a, but it's going to be great because it's more accessible. It's smaller, which I know a lot of people will prefer. I mean, you're not supposed to riffle this deck. It's really meant to be lifted and dropped, which is why the good, the big cards were cool because it kind of forced you to do it that way. Um, but, yeah, the end of October, smaller deck, smaller book, smaller box, and smaller price. So,

Laylla: There you go.

Phyllis: many, many, many more people to get it, which will thrill me no end. Yeah, the, the, I love that you called it rounder.

Laylla: Yeah, there's, there's something, there's a quality to it that to me as a reader, um, it, it, it's more, maybe more feminine, maybe softer, I'm not sure, but I, I very much like it. It, it's different, but I, I love it. And so, I'm looking forward to, hopefully, having getting both, getting, we're going to have both of them because I love the idea of the bigger deck that you drop. It's a little different, you know, and, and having something a little different is fun. So, I love to hear that. Yeah, it is a more feminine deck, um, not intentionally so, although created by two women, but the, the energy, the preeminent energy that came through was very maternal, tough at times, especially in the five cards. We had no intention, you know, like, "Oh, the five cards will be." No, no. We just kept asking, "What do we need to know? What do you want to show us? What do people need to know?" And, and the deck appeared. It, it, you know,

Laylla: Beautiful.

Phyllis: And the energy of it was, there are, uh, non-binary figures who appeared. There are men who appeared, um, and tons and tons and tons of animals and spirits of elements that appeared. But the overarching energy, I would say, is the energy of Mother Earth of the divine feminine embodied by the natural world, that sort of overarching anima mundi. And she was so compassionate and benevolent and generous, truly maternal, you know, in the best sense of that word. Um, and it, and, and, you know, it wasn't, I mean, you know, it's my voice, and it's writ- it's a written deck. It's very different because it's really a written deck. Um, and my voice is very present in that writing. But, but we were writing it together, and, and it's a much more benevolent presence than mine. I'm not maternal. I'm always saying, "I'm breastplate, not breast."

Chelle: I love the, the wheel card, um, in that deck, um, in some decks they call it the wheel, the wheel of fortune, um, but that card is absolutely beautiful in this deck. There's just something about it that just speaks to my core. Beautiful, beautiful card. I, I am kind of tarot obsessed. I have about 170 decks, and there's something about that wheel of life card that just resonates deeply with me.

Phyllis: I'll tell Danielle. She'll be very moved. It's, it's one of the most beautiful, I mean, there are tons and tons and tons of beautiful images, but it's one of the most beautiful. It's really powerful. It's really evocative. She captures the magic of each of the seasons as the wheel is turning, um, and it's, yeah, there's tons of, of symbolism and messages and hidden magic in every illustration. And, and in the, the writing, there's, there are spells, you know, as you're reading the copy, where you see things rhyming, there are spells going on. So, you have to dig for it a little, you know, you got to be paying, if I put, there are, there's a magic for every card, and that's quite explicit, but there are also these spells that are a little more hidden that you have to kind of work for to find them, but they're there.

Laylla: Oh, well, now I definitely need this deck because Easter eggs are my thing. Give me a, us, magical Easter egg, I'm there. So,

Chelle: Challenge accepted. Challenge accepted.

Phyllis: You'll have to read for me at some point. I want to have somebody else read for me with my deck.

Laylla: Absolutely. 100%.

Phyllis: You know what? I've been sitting here while we've been talking about it, and, and I pulled the card. Oh. I, okay, so, what's the message? And it's the Pilgrim. It's the Pilgrim. Oh. Oh, with the fox.

Chelle: But, Laylla, if you notice behind Phyllis, she has a tapestry of the same exact card.

Laylla: Look at that. Wow, talk about synchronicities and journeys and travel.

Phyllis: Starting the journey.

Laylla: Yeah.

Phyllis: Yeah.

Laylla: I, I am very excited about the connection here and the, the earthiness of this card and just, I, what I'm seeing here with this and with you and with this doubling of the card is, I just can't stop with the synchronicities. I just keep seeing that there is, there's more to this journey for you that will be revealed on the path, that you are on a path that maybe even you don't know some of these new doors that are going to be opening up, and some of the, the adventures, uh, the, not adventures, but more possibilities that are going to be coming for you in the near future. I'm very excited to see where you'll go from here because I think you have some unexpected things, and, and the fox, the trickster, you know, there's a little bit of wisdom here for you with that. So, I am curious to see where that goes.

Phyllis: Me too. I mean, one of the things about that fox, there were four totems in, that appeared in the deck, and the fox appeared really early on. It was darting all over the place, driving Danielle crazy because she's a Virgo. She's like, she wants the fox to go in a straight line. I'm like, "I got a fox," you know, literally, I got a four-legged fox, her name is Foxy. And, that's not, it drives my husband crazy when we try to take a walk because she's darting all over the place, because your instinct catches the scent and knows which way to go, and it isn't always in a straight line, right? Um, and you have to allow yourself to be guided by things that aren't necessarily rational, but, right, that are deeply instinctual. And you have to trust the wisdom of your, of your, of your body. The intuition is the instinct of your, you know, your, your mental faculties. Instinct to me is very embodied. It's that, what your body knows. Um, and, yeah, I like what you're saying. And the, the thing that I remind myself when I see that card, in response to what you're saying, is to remind myself, and this was that, that, that maternal, powerful, benevolent energy that really surfaced in this card, that what, what she needs to know, what I am being reminded of, is that no matter what direction I choose, no matter which way I go, I am always supported. Every time I put my foot down, mother is beneath me to hold me up, that the air I breathe, the water, that everything I need to live is being given to me with abundance and generosity, and that I'm safe. I'm safe. I'm guided. I'm loved. I'm, I'm supported. Um, and that, that is how I should, open-heartedly, move into the journey.

Laylla: And accept the things that come up as they come up, and, and, and just honestly look at them and accept them as they are and move forward with that, knowing the whole time that you're in a good space and that you're supported, and whichever direction you go, whether it's zig-zaggy or in a straight line, that you have that support. I love that. I love that.

Chelle: Now, Phyllis, I, I do have one last question for you. Laylla is blessed to be able to, to participate this year in the Parliament of World Religions, um, alongside, uh, all the, the thousands of folks that'll be there. Um, is there an opportunity for folks like me to support it or participate or get behind it in some way, even though we physically cannot be in Chicago? Is there a way for us to be supportive?

Phyllis: Oh, that's such a, thank you. Thank you, thank you, thank you. So, the answer is absolutely yes, and there are a bunch of ways. Um, I mean, I have my own Patreon community, which is part of my support to be able to do this. Um, and that's incredibly meaningful to me. You can become a member of the Parliament. You can just sign up for the newsletter, right? And so, you find out what's going on with the Parliament, but also what's going on locally. Um, you can, of course, if people want to, if they're in the Chicago area, they can volunteer the way you did, and it's 50 bucks, and then you just put in a few hours every day, and you're in, right? Because at this juncture, I think it's, it's a little more expensive. I think it's 350 a person if you come with a group of 10, it's a little more if you're on your own. But you can, you can, you can come for 50 bucks, just do some work, which is very pagan, you know.

Laylla: I'm very excited.

Phyllis: There we go. And, and, you know, it's, it's a good way to do it. And the other thing is that we will be announcing a day rate and a, an online rate. You won't be able to, I mean, there's 800 programs, and there's rituals,

Laylla: Right, right.

Phyllis: sacred music night. But we'll be streaming, um, all of the plenaries, which are the major programs. We'll be streaming, um, I believe, the Women's Assembly and the two Climate Assemblies, so you get to participate in that, which is some of the most important programming that we're doing, those three assemblies. Um, and there'll be other, there will be panels that will be up. And I would say the other way that you can participate, the the little speech that you mentioned at the very beginning, um, was the statement that I wrote for the press. And I was very honored that the that the trustees entrusted me with the task of speaking to the Fourth Estate. And I, you know, I'm I call it like it is, and if you don't like it, you know, don't expect me to apologize afterwards. But I wrote this thing, and I didn't run it by anybody except my friend, the executive director. I said, "Is this okay?" He was like, "Yeah, yeah, that's okay." And I did it, right? Um, and we've taken it now, and we're turning it into uh, a declaration. We met with the heads of all the other interfaith organizations, uh, URI, uh, Religions for Peace, uh, the Interfaith Alliance, etc., etc. And um, I'm reshaping it as a shared statement, and they're contributing to it.

Laylla: Nice.

Phyllis: And everybody's going to sign on to it. So, it's a statement of it's a statement by religious leaders of the world and and practitioners of all the world's faith traditions that we're standing together, collectively, courageously, in unison, and our reply to A unified call to action. unified call to action that we are standing uh, in opposition to fascism and that that in our local communities, we will support one another and opposing fascists wherever they are and whatever they seek to do. So, um, you can sign on that. It'll go up on the Parliament website. I'll have it up on on mine. It'll be on my Temple of Ara website. Um, I'll put it up on Instagram, you know, I'm doing Laylla: And I will post links. Yes, I'll put links to all of this in the show notes, make it easy.

Phyllis: Disseminating that to the pagan community and having pagans sign on, and uh, witches, and practitioners of Euro-indigenous revivals, and I don't care what you call yourself, just call just answer the call to conscience.

Laylla: Pagans of the world unite and help make change for everyone because the world needs her witches, and we need to take action. So, we know you're very busy. We won't take up much more of your time. But thank you, thank you so much for being on the show, for all the work that you're doing, for your books, for your websites, just for being here. Thank you so much.

Chelle: And just being an overall trailblazer. That's you, right?

Phyllis: I appreciate it. And um, the world needs her witches.

Laylla: Thank you so much to our special guest, Phyllis Curott, for spending time with us today on Back on the Broomstick. I hope you all enjoyed hearing her talk about the upcoming Parliament of World Religions, which is starting next week, and her upcoming tarot deck, the Witches Wisdom Tarot, which is going out of print for the deluxe edition and will come into print in October for the new smaller size edition.

Chelle: And we're hoping that once the deck comes out, or right before the deck comes out, that maybe we will be blessed to have Phyllis back to talk specifically about the tarot.

Laylla: Heck yeah, and hopefully do a reading for her too. My goodness. Talk about being put on the spot, man. That was scary but fun.

Chelle: Right. And again, Laylla's going to put links uh, in the show notes for the Parliament of World Religions. She'll put a link up to Phyllis's uh, direct site, um, and we will put up links to the YouTube video of the speech that Laylla referenced.

Laylla: And coming up during the Parliament of World Religions, we will be speaking to many of the presenters, workshop givers, speakers, and we'll have a lot of surprise people coming on for you. So, stay tuned for that. And uh, thank you for listening to Back on the Broomstick. Please join us next week on Friday as we discuss even more topics that you have sent in. If you'd like to hear something or just want to tell us what you think, please email us at backonthebroomstick@gmail.com. And please rate us, give us stars, reviews. It really helps the show out, and we appreciate it. So, we will see you next time.

Chelle: Keep it witchy.
