Chelle: Let me try this intro.

Laylla: Right, because this is the week finally, finally you're going to be me and I'm going to be you.

Chelle: So, I'm going to see if I can do this as good as you. So, it's witchcraft. Welcome to The Stoned Witches Hour, where two best friends from two opposite coasts talk about spooky, paranormal, cryptid, weedy, getting high, having fun, creepy, best friends stuff with a tad and a sprinkle of witchy fairy dust. So, join us because tonight, Chelle is Laylla, Laylla is Chelle, who can tell? Oh my god, I'm doing true crime tonight. I can't even believe it. So, I'm Chelle, who the hell are you?

Laylla: I'm really stoned. Hold on. I'm so used to going first and I'm so fucking high right now. I'm Laylla, hi.

Chelle: You know, I'm glad you remembered who you were, finally. You know, it's just so weird because we were separated for a week again and now I'm you and you're me. Like, holy crap, people.

Laylla: And I'm so wasted.

Chelle: Well, we're both wasted, but that's okay.

Laylla: Yes. Oh, this week, Chelle, this week, you made me go way outside my comfort zone.

Chelle: What did I make you do this time?

Laylla: You challenged me to find a hospital or a mental health institution that has a spooky past.

Chelle: Oh my god, did you find one?

Laylla: I did, and you know I hate those.

Chelle: Yes. Yes, yes, yes. And, you know what? This true crime thing, holy crap, there's ghosts, there's murder. This is like one big freaking ball of like good story all into one.

Laylla: Yeah, there's a lot there. There's definitely a lot. And that's the thing, sometimes with these, especially with some of these older, more horrific true crime locations, there really does tend to be a lot of paranormal activity.

Chelle: Well, and I also think part of it is because there was not the law enforcement follow-up back then as there is now. If you, you know what I mean? Like, you could get away with shit back in like the 1800s that you just don't get away with now. So, like, people were doing some horrific shit that like nobody was calling them out on, and horrific shit creates creates ghosts. That's just it. It creates ghosts.

Laylla: It really does. It really does. So, while I'm over here having, I'm doing all the bubble hash and smoking all the good weed, I, I will admit that this is a jar of something I didn't label.

Chelle: Oh, shit. Are you smoking some mystery stuff?

Laylla: I am. I'm smoking mystery weed. I think it's like six months old. I don't even know what I'm smoking. I kind of reached into the back of my cabinet and I'm like, "Hey, this looks really good." Like, it's like the weed fairy visited my, visited my closet.

Chelle: But is it dry?

Laylla: It is. It's perfect. It, you know, it, it is older. I, it's like at four to six months old and I didn't label it, unfortunately. I think it's kind of a, a sativa because it does have a little bit more of that head high. I'm, I'm definitely more talkative, more giggly, more Chelle-like. And, it's got, it's got that really good green gassy taste. You know, when you, you take a hit of weed and it almost tastes like that smell when you're, you're gassing up your car on a summer afternoon?

Chelle: Yeah, I love it. Like, it literally, it, it has that gassy taste. And when I was like younger, I used to think it was because they packaged it that way because at the time, weed was illegal and they'd package it in all kinds of crazy shit.

Laylla: Well, to be fucking honest, Chelle, that might actually be how it happened. A lot of times they would use different things like that to try to disguise the smell.

Chelle: Like, like laundry detergent. Remember when you'd smoke weed and it was like so much like freaking Tide clothes laundry soap?

Laylla: Yeah, you had to really be careful back in the day. Legalization has definitely helped that. And, and that's one of the reasons why I started growing was because I think we found more than a little weird shit every once in a while in our weed. But, yeah, no, this gasoline taste is the kind that you want in a weed. This is the good one. I grew this, so the only gas here is the gas of like a really high-quality sativa. And, I love it so much. The taste is just absolutely delicious. Unfortunately, it gets me so freaking high, so I have to kind of be careful.

Chelle: You wouldn't be a, you wouldn't be a stoned witch if you weren't.

Laylla: It's so good. I want to just keep smoking it. So, I, I do, I keep having bowl after bowl after bowl. And now, like, I can see myself in our video right now. My eyes are all red.

Chelle: They're a little puffy.

Laylla: They're a little puffy. My eyelids are like halfway down and I can't stop grinning. So, between this, the edibles, and the hash, I am definitely going to be very shelf-level high for the entire episode. And, I'm going to need to be because I'm talking about the Emily Morgan Hotel in Texas. It's right across from the Alamo, and it's so fucking haunted. Their own website talks about the different floors and the different rooms to stay in if you would like a haunted experience.

Chelle: I just want to point out to everybody, and you know, one of these days we're going to get our act together and we are actually going to, to post a video because not only are we funny to listen to, we're funny to look at.

Laylla: We are.

Chelle: But if you were to see us both right now, I think right now we both kind of look like the female version of Cheech and Chong because we're both really high today. Not that we're not really high other times, but for those who listen to us consistently, please know we're much more higher this time than in times past.

Laylla: So, do you see this brownie? This is the second one of that size I am eating.

Chelle: That looks delicious.

Laylla: I'm so happy.

Chelle: Delicious.

Laylla: I have so much stuff, Chelle, so much stuff. So, what would you try out of that picture?

Chelle: Probably the Oreo-looking things.

Laylla: I'll get one and I'll eat it.

Chelle: But I'll tell you what, though, like, edibles just don't do it for me, man. Like, I'll, I'll eat a gummy and I feel nothing.

Laylla: I am pretty sure that most people with their edibles are lying to us.

Chelle: No, this is like from the store.

Laylla: Oh, yeah, I know. The store edibles, I'm still pretty sure they're lying to us. I don't know.

Chelle: About what? THC content? What?

Laylla: Yeah, I think so. I know they have to have it tested, but come on, when was the last time you had an edible that really rocked your world?

Chelle: Like, 1997.

Laylla: And it was something someone made for you, most likely, right?

Chelle: Or a ganja goo ball at a festival. I was going to say, at a festival that we would have gone to. But, like, literally, the last time I had a good edible was like literally 1991.

Laylla: What? So, I don't know if it's, because we didn't know what the THC content was back in the day.

Chelle: We didn't know that it mattered. Right? We didn't know enough to know that we needed to know.

Laylla: You know what I'm curious about, though? And I'm wondering if you've ever tried. Have you ever tried the, the THC seltzer drinks? Never had one?

Laylla: No. I've seen them. I've seen like the THC water and stuff at festivals, but I have not tried it yet.

Chelle: I'm curious if there's, if there's any bang to that buck.

Laylla: I imagine there is. They're getting better at putting THC in things, whereas before it just had to go into like butter or sugar, you know, some type of, it's fat-soluble, so you had to put it in some type of fat.

Chelle: Gotcha.

Laylla: Which reminds me, I have that huge stick of butter that has over 1,300 grams of THC in it. Well,

Chelle: I am sure we have got to have a listener out here somewhere who's got a butter recipe. Someone help Laylla.

Laylla: Something not sweet. I have brownies, I have Oreo cookies, I have gummies, I have chocolates. I'm not really a sweet person.

Chelle: Give us a new idea. Somebody's got to have a new idea. Bring it on.

Laylla: Like rice crispy treats. I liked your idea of the crispy treats because any cereal treats,

Chelle: They're blander.

Laylla: That's right. You can use a little less sugar, a little less marshmallow.

Chelle: Little less marshmallow.

Laylla: And, and it's a little better. But, yeah, and, and I'm thinking, you know, I might want to take a, a page from one of those, you know, cooking with marijuana shows and do, do like, do some pasta with butter and just take the butter and infuse it into maybe, maybe I'll make a, alfredo sauce is one of those sauces, it almost feels like cheating, it's so easy to make from scratch. It's just basically butter and, Romano cheese and cream.

Chelle: Garlic, probably.

Laylla: And garlic. That's like it. And, and that's it. So, I could just use that butter and make like a really nice alfredo sauce. That might be fun.

Chelle: You know what? You're like one of those like crafty, ingenuitive people to begin with. Why don't you just start trying some shit that you would normally make that's butter-heavy and just put weed in it? Or you could just have like the buttered spaghetti. When we come out, I'll bring it and we'll have a little THC-infused dinner party and I'll just make every dish with THC.

Chelle: Oh my god, shrimp scampi. Shrimp scampi with butter that's infused with THC. How freaking delightful would that be? How delightful.

Laylla: Okay, let's come up with an, let's ask the listeners. So, shrimp scampi is going to be one of our dishes. What other dishes should we have that we will infuse cannabis in every single dish, right down to dessert?

Chelle: When we make this, we will be posting photos of these.

Laylla: Oh, yeah, pictures of every single one. This is going to be amazing.

Chelle: Absolutely. Absolutely.

Laylla: I can already feel this brownie. I took the first half of it about 20 minutes ago. And what I've found,

Chelle: I feel like you took like a sliver and that it wasn't really a lot at all from what I saw.

Laylla: I did. That was the second half.

Chelle: Unless zoom is deceiving, but it looked like it was little.

Laylla: No, it was little. I would say the whole amount that I, that I ate is about the size of a small brownie. I would say about like a 2-inch, you know, like maybe smaller than a 2-inch square, 1 and 1/2-inch square.

Chelle: Wow.

Laylla: And, and it's about an inch thick. You know, just like a regular dense brownie. Now, these were homemade. This gentleman likes to grow and he has, is also, he's a maker. He likes to make things. And so, he's kind of gotten into making THC-infused treats.

Chelle: I was going to say, like a crafty maker or like a food baker maker?

Laylla: A little bit of both. He likes to grow, he likes to cook, he likes to make things. He's just one of those people that likes to do stuff. And oddly, he doesn't smoke weed.

Chelle: So, what you're telling me is this guy does all this stuff, but he doesn't even like partake?

Laylla: No. No.

Chelle: What a bummer. Like, what a bummer.

Laylla: He, he's a gardener first and foremost is, is how he got into it. He, he decided once it was legal, he really wanted to try his hand growing it, and he loved it. He had such a good time growing.

Chelle: One of those people who likes to see things go from nothing to something.

Laylla: Exactly. And so, I've smoked some of his weed and it's good. I, I think I've said before, it, it, it's really nice. It's a little fluffy. I think he needs a little more light. But other than that, I mean, for a first-time grow, well, I mean, I guess it's not really his first time, but, you know, a new grower, he's doing a great job. It's very tasty, very stony. And, he, he loves to make edibles. So, he's started, and the bubble hash, oh, man, it's so good. I'm going to smoke all of it. It's so good. And, he's got some Rick Simpson oil. Like, you know, those little silicone things that you get like for free a lot of times at dispensaries?

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: Three of those. Two of them are filled with like a really dark hash and one of them is full of Rick Simpson oil, and it's fantastic. So, this whole thing is, um,

Chelle: Oh, wow.

Laylla: So, this is bubble hash and it's got big chunks of bubble hash. Like, I mean, I've got, I've got grams on grams on grams of bubble hash. If you're not familiar with bubble hash, you freeze your weed and you basically take bags of different layer, different size mesh in the bottom of the bags. Put your weed in it, and immerse it into some ice water. And you use some type of agitation. And what happens is it knocks all of the trichomes, all of the THC-producing crystals off of the weed and into the water. So, when you lift up the bags, you first, you take out the first bag that's got everything, all of the green matter in it, and any leftover ice, and you dispose of that. And then, as you go through each progressively smaller micron-size bag, you get a better and better quality of hash, which is, again, just the THC portion of the weed.

Chelle: I feel like that's such a waste not to want not thing.

Laylla: Most of the trichomes and the THC comes off of it. Some people will then boil that or, well, not boil it, but they'll use it in cooking or something else like that. But this is such good, it's such clean, good hash. It's, it's, it's squishy, it's good. It burns really nice, and the taste is fantastic.

Chelle: So, this guy's a damn genius and doesn't even partake in his own product. That blows me away.

Laylla: Right. And so, I have, I was given a whole box of things to try for him and let him know what I think. And I'm having a little trouble getting away from the bubble hash. The brownies I'm eating a lot of because I don't want them to go bad because the rest of it will last a lot longer.

Chelle: Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. That's the excuse we're using. Laylla's eating all the brownies because she doesn't want them to go bad. Wink, wink, nudge, nudge.

Laylla: My youngest brother is friends with this guy. He happens, oh my god, so you saw the small size of the, the brownie, the half, the second half of the brownie that I ate. Now, that much brownie will, will give me a good body buzz, give me a good head buzz, and basically it makes me really smiley and happy. However, for a beginner user, I would recommend going with edibles, especially these are homemade and he has a pretty decent idea of what's in each one because he measures and pays attention, but we don't know for sure. So, you want to start out really small. And I had a friend who's a, a very beginner cannabis user and an almost complete virgin when it comes to edibles. And, I gave them just a little tiny bite.

Chelle: Knock off of socks.

Laylla: Here's some differences. For me, edibles tend to hit within 15 to 20 minutes. I can start to feel the effects. I don't know if it's just because I'm very familiar with, with the effects, so I notice them right away and they kind of ramp up. But for a beginner user, I noticed that she was saying she didn't notice anything for about the first hour. And then it hit like a freight train. And she was really, really high, almost to the point of being too high for quite a few hours.

Chelle: Been there, done that.

Laylla: Same. So, again, for me, it, it starts, I can start to feel it sooner. And so, I can gauge how strong it is by how quickly it comes on and, and how it affects me. But again, that's because I'm very, very familiar with how edibles and how THC in general affects my body, my psyche, you know, all of that. Now, my youngest brother, I told him how much she had taken and how it felt, how much I had taken and how it felt. He proceeded to take a brownie this big, which is a good 2 inches by 4 inches square.

Chelle: And that is why me and your brother get along.

Laylla: We're like, that's the hero brownie right there. Needless to say, he passed out on the couch.

Chelle: Go big or go home, man. Go big or go home. That's right.

Laylla: He passed out on the couch watching anime and, and I think he got that whole Netflix, you know, "Are you still watching?" thing kind of going.

Chelle: He woke up so hungry. He probably woke up and wanted more popcorn than he could shove in his mouth.

Laylla: He says he woke up, he stumbled into bed and woke up high the next morning and had to go to work high.

Chelle: Kudos to him. Kudos to him.

Laylla: Yeah. So, good stuff, though. Very, very good stuff. I'll eat one of those Oreos for you and I'll let you know how it goes.

Chelle: As I had said earlier, um, I had spent earlier today at a party because as all of our listeners know, the whole of the nation of the United States of America is like if the depths of hell pulled out like their ass. Like, this is hot. And you know what the worst part is? Is it was 98 degrees here today, and we're not the hottest place. We're like cool compared to other parts of the country.

Laylla: Did you just say that we're hotter than Satan's taint?

Chelle: We are. We are, are hotter than Satan's starfish. It's warm out there. It's warm out there.

Laylla: It's pretty, pretty hot there, yeah.

Chelle: And, and, and so, you know, I had some Mai Tais to cool myself, some nice Mai Tais.

Laylla: Yummy, yummy.

Chelle: Then, there was a sale. My favorite store, Happy Valley, we've talked about Happy Valley a million times. They had Super Lemon Haze pre-rolls. And I was like, "Hook a girl up."

Laylla: I love Super Lemon Haze. Love it.

Chelle: You all right? You all right over there?

Laylla: Yeah.

Chelle: You're not all right.

Laylla: I hiccuped while I took a hit, and it was weird.

Chelle: And it turned, and it turned, had to cough it off.

Laylla: Yeah, I did this weird like hiccup while I was inhaling the hit and it just hit weird.

Chelle: This, folks, this is where Laylla gets high to a different level than the rest of us. Damn her.

Laylla: Yes, wow. Yeah, so I'm smoking some good weed. It's not Super Lemon Haze, but it's good stuff.

Chelle: You know, these, these pre-rolls are actually, I kind of like how they do them. They kind of, this weed, this, this Super Lemon Haze batch that they have is very dense and sticky. And these pre-rolls are very dense and sticky. So, like, good bang for your buck. Good bang for your buck.

Laylla: I like a good pre-roll.

Chelle: And they were on sale.

Laylla: Does it burn well?

Chelle: It does. That, and that's the difference between how it's packed is how it burns. You know, if it, if it's packed like shit, it's going to burn like shit.

Laylla: Exactly. And nobody needs that.

Chelle: I think that's why I like the professionally packed ones because as we know, I have no business rolling anything. No business.

Laylla: That's true. You can pack a bowl like a fucking pro.

Chelle: Exactly. Like if there were Olympics for that shit, I'd be gold medaling in it.

Laylla: I have a video I have to show you, Chelle, of the one of the last, one of the last festivals, weed festivals that my husband and I went to before COVID fucked everything. He entered into a bong ripping contest.

Chelle: Only in California. I swear to God, only in California do they do shit like that.

Laylla: So, they had to do this thing. They had like 10 people, right? Dozen people or so. And basically, what they did is each person would go up and they had these pre-measured amounts of weed. So, you'd get your random pre-measured amount of weed and they'd say go and then you had to pack the bowl. You had to pack the bong and you had to clear the bowl and then cash it on the table.

Chelle: That's great.

Laylla: And they timed you. Went and was one of the four finalists, obviously. And they were just like amazed. He blew everyone out of the water. His time was like half the time of the next highest person.

Chelle: I'm telling you, two things. First of all, I've ripped bongs with your husband before. Iron lung. I'm telling you, he can pull, he can pull bongs with the best of them. And second of all, if that were an Olympic sport, that's where he would shine with gold medals.

Laylla: Now, I have video of this. So, in the finals, he gets up there and this is where he would do you so proud, Chelle. You're going to be so happy.

Chelle: Please tell me he just stuffed it and shoved it.

Laylla: Yes. You called it. Yes. You absolutely called it. He gets up there. He's grinning from ear to ear. He knew he had this in the bag. So, he gets up there and the DJ's like hyping him up and like, "Oh, yeah, here's our champion here. He did so good. How's he going to do this time?" And he pushes forward. It's about, and it's like a big fat nug and just kind of, starts the timer, looks at it, looks at the guy, shoves it right in the pipe. The crowd went nuts and was like, "Whoa, he's going to do it." They're like, "He didn't even break it up."

Chelle: I love it. I love it.

Laylla: The Superman of pot smoking over here just like torches the bud, sucks it down and again, blew the next highest person out of the water. I think the last chick was like, "I don't even want to go." That was fun.

Chelle: That, that's one of the things that they do out west that is definitely better than out, out here in the east because you don't find fun shit like that on the east coast. I'm telling you.

Laylla: No, no, you don't. And I have video evidence of it, so that's fun. Much like last episode where we talked about a ghost story that we had, that you actually still have video evidence of.

Chelle: You know, first of all, a couple of things about that. I really appreciate you doing that because, you know, sometimes life gets in the way and everybody loved, everybody loved hearing your stories because I listened. First thing I did was listened and I was like, "Damn, that's good." And then the second thing I thought was, "I still have that VHS tape packed in a storage unit."

Laylla: I know you listened because you texted me right after you heard it. And girl, you know I got you anytime, whatever you need. But, I know you listened. You texted me and all you said was, "I still have that tape in a storage locker."

Chelle: But, you know, the one, I, I did want to add one little like footnote to that story.

Laylla: Oh, please do.

Chelle: So, for all the listeners who listened last week, um, with Laylla's solo ghost stories, she had told a story about, um, when I'm like, "Hey, let's use a Ouija board." Um, at her dad's.

Laylla: One of the rare times that Chelle has actually been like, "Yeah, let's use a Ouija board at a haunted location."

Chelle: Why not? So, I, I don't know if maybe you don't remember this or, or maybe I didn't even tell you. I don't even know. But, one part of that story that was left out was after all was said and done and we did try to go to bed, I was in that downstairs back bedroom. And I was getting tormented by something literally until the sun came up. And like, it was like hovering over the bed and it just wouldn't let, like, let it go. And, and I almost felt that, you had talked about people being dragged out of bed, um, on occasion, like pulled by their feet. And that man, I just remember black hair and trying to get me out of that bed. And so, when I listened to that episode last week, I was like, "Oh my God, I don't even know if she remembers that part because that was even worse."

Laylla: When I told the story, I knew, I did remember that you had had an experience, but I was going to leave that for you to tell. But, I can, I have chills right now thinking about it because, if I remember correctly, you guys stayed in that back room.

Chelle: The back bedroom. Yes. And I was tormented, tormented all, until sun came up.

Laylla: The first floor back bedroom is rumored to be the room where there was supposedly a shotgun. And that's where the gentleman that supposedly committed the double murder and then killed himself went and got the shotgun. And that is where his spirit, and he's very angry.

Chelle: Yeah, and that's the bedroom you're like, "Hey, Chelle, why don't you go sleep there after a night of Ouija-ing?"

Laylla: Hey, I think in my defense, I'm pretty sure that's where my dad put you and he should know better because he's had a ton of experiences in that house. But, yeah, that's where, upstairs it tends to be a kinder woman and very rarely does it tend to be the angry man.

Chelle: Yeah, I had the angry guy in the back bedroom and my husband at the time, um, was a little spooked and kind of just wanted to be done with your dad's house.

Laylla: Yeah, none of us got any sleep that night, even though when we tried to contact the spirits, nothing seemed to happen.

Chelle: It was, it was after. It was like when we were making the attempt, nothing. And then when we were done, they were like, "Hey, we're here." And we were like, "Yeah, we're ready to go to bed." And they're like, "Yeah, no, I don't think so."

Laylla: Now, I think that there are spirits in that house that try to protect people. And I've told a story before, I think it's the episode with Tom where I first talked about this house, where one of my experiences was where the spirits tried to keep us from going some place that could possibly have been a dangerous situation.

Chelle: But, I also feel like what I recall of your dad's house was like every room had a different feel, a different spirit. It was almost like, like you said, the, the kinder lady upstairs, but the angry man in the back bedroom. Everywhere you went was like a different vibe and somebody different was occupying that space. Like your dad's house is off the chart.

Laylla: Depending on what type of story someone tells me about their experience, I can tell you where in the house they had it because it's, it's consistent. People who don't know anything about the house will walk up the stairs and be like, "I just heard someone call my name or tell me to get out from, from this corner." That's common. It happens. It's the same thing, same place. Or they'll talk, if they talk about an old woman or a young woman, I know they were upstairs in one of the two back bedrooms.

Chelle: Or the dark-haired mad man.

Laylla: If they talk about a dark-haired angry man, I know they were downstairs in the kitchen or in the back bedroom or possibly in the stairwell.

Chelle: Cuz wasn't he what we ended up thinking, didn't we think it was, was him that was the stomper?

Laylla: We did. We thought it was him. Now, looking back at it, I almost wonder if it wasn't the protector trying to keep us away or keep us from summoning the black-haired man.

Chelle: That could be. And got pissed at us.

Laylla: And got mad at us.

Chelle: Cuz we were.

Laylla: Um, we were young and dumb and traveling around freaking upstate New York with Ouija boards in our trunk. I mean, what did we, what did we expect?

Chelle: What did we expect?

Laylla: Yeah, we fully, we fully went into a house that we knew was haunted, that we knew people.

Chelle: Haunted things. We were poking the bear and we were too stupid and young to know it.

Laylla: Exactly. We left that house at dawn. None of us being morning people at all.

Chelle: I'm like, "I'm good. We can leave now. It's been real. Let's just smoke on the way."

Laylla: That video, oh my goodness. And you know, I, I know I like to say that some of the weird anomalies in the room really could, I guess, be smoke and candlelight, but.

Chelle: No. No.

Laylla: No.

Chelle: Not after the way, not after the way I was treated in that back bedroom. Absolutely.

Laylla: No. No. No. No. I'm not surprised. He, not a nice man. Not a nice man at all.

Chelle: No, and he wasn't really happy that there was people in that bed. He didn't want me in that bed.

Laylla: No. Most of the time, that room stayed empty. Um, anyone who has ever had to stay there, very often just kept it as a store room because people didn't even like going in there. It just felt oppressive.

Chelle: But, let's push Chelle in there for the night.

Laylla: Time that you stayed there, it did happen to have a bed in it, just, but you ever know like when you go into basements how like basements often have like that scary, creepy, oppressive vibe?

Chelle: I do.

Laylla: This was a room on the first floor that had that same kind of scary, creepy, oppressive vibe. Much like the ominous vibe of the house in your story tonight, Chelle. The murders that happened in that house. What are you doing?

Chelle: I'm doing the LaLaurie Mansion in New Orleans. And, and you know New Orleans, like, I've talked about how the east coast has some of the most haunted cities and towns and, and locations in America. But, like, New Orleans, off the freaking hook. Off the hook. I would, I have found articles and I would have to agree that do agree that New Orleans is the most haunted city in America.

Laylla: The most. Absolutely the most.

Chelle: You know, there's, I saw a ghost there. They're, they're everywhere. They're crawling out of every brick there.

Laylla: They're like on the street corner. They're like greeting you like the damn prostitutes in New York City. Like.

Chelle: Exactly. Just like that. Just like that, Chelle. That's an oddly specific reference. Please, everybody, create your own visual for that. But, but yeah, look, so the LaLaurie Mansion in New Orleans is just, we're going to, we're going to talk about some crazy shit. This is bad.

Laylla: This one's bad. I need to be really high for this one and I'm going to, I'm going to need to continuously be high for this one because I, I've heard a little bit about it. I knew enough to suggest it to you. And then I kind of stayed away. But, what I, what I do know is horrific. So, everybody, please get your best weed, get your pre-rolls, get your, get your bongs. Make sure you have a teddy bear.

Chelle: I was going to say tonight they need their blankies because, you know, we're both doing like Southern, Middle America. And I feel like there's a lot of activity between New Orleans and Texas. There really is. You know, like this LaLaurie Mansion, I can't even believe how you found it because I'd never heard of it. This is on Royal Street in the French Quarter of New Orleans, which I've never been to New Orleans. You have been blessed to go there, so you know that it's, it's probably one of the most haunted cities in America.

Laylla: It is.

Chelle: This building has multiple ghostly entities that like have been documented literally since 1834. There was this lady, a mean lady.

Laylla: Oh, so this is about a, so this true crime is like a, a female who is the perpetrator.

Chelle: Yeah, you know, everybody thinks that, that men are always the perpetrator. Hell no, cuz this lady was crazy and, and brutal. Brutal. Her name was Madame Delphine Macarty LaLaurie. That's a lot of names. Those are, those are, that's a mouthful.

Laylla: Delphine, that's kind of interesting.

Chelle: And she was twice married. So, I don't know why people like, they didn't get rid of their names, they just added them on.

Laylla: I wonder if that had anything to do with like inheritance or, or prestige or power. You know, they wanted to, to hold on to that part of it.

Chelle: That could be, yeah.

Laylla: Maybe.

Chelle: Yeah. So, you know, she married her husband at the time, Dr. Leonard Louis Nicolas LaLaurie, bought this property in 1831 and there was a house under construction that he had finished for them. So, it was this two-story mansion. And back then, especially down south in 1830s, properties were designed and constructed having slave quarters.

Laylla: Right. Unfortunately, there was still, people were still enslaved at that time.

Chelle: Right. Right. This woman was born during the Spanish colonial period and, you know, kind of rich, a little wealthy, had a big house. So, what year did you say?

Laylla: This was, uh, 1832.

Chelle: No shit.

Laylla: So, 1832, her and, and, and her, her, her husband got this property. It was 1140 Royal Street in the French Quarter. She was able to get her husband to put this house in her name, which back then was kind of weird. Most properties and wealth was always in the man's name.

Laylla: So, this is husband number three?

Chelle: Yeah, and, and she got him to put this house in her name, which.

Laylla: Oh, that's not suspicious at all. Husband number one and two both died? Little bit of black widow going on here, maybe. Put your property in my name, wink, wink.

Chelle: Right, that's not suspicious at all. Run, dude, run. But, you know, it, it was, they were, they were kind of loaded, so they had beautiful chandeliers, intricate carvings. You know, it was, it was a beautiful place. They were kind of a part of high society, I guess you'd call it, in New Orleans. They'd have lavish parties. Socialites would have, you know, champagne and all that jazz at their house. So, this marriage started to have problems. Shocker.

Laylla: Surprise.

Chelle: She wanted to get separated.

Laylla: You could do that back then?

Chelle: Apparently. So, she had this property because remember, she conned him into putting it in her name. This all started with rumors. I don't know how the rumors started, I don't know how stuff leaked out to people, but rumors began to swirl um, that Delphine was really badly treating her slaves and that her slaves looked generally haggard and wretched. Some people treated their slaves really well because, you know, the better you treat them, the better they're going to work for you, you know what I mean?

Laylla: Weren't there rules at the time there on, I mean, enslaving people is shitty, but didn't they have like some weird rules on how you could treat them?

Chelle: I believe so. I believe so. Guidelines, so to say. But, she was, she was like a Jekyll and Hyde because in public, she was generally polite to African American people and very salacious of her slaves' health. Basically, she talked a good game in public and put on that face. But then, when she got home, different story.

Laylla: So, there were rumors that she was mistreating her slaves.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: But in public, she would be very nice to them and everyone would say, "Oh, well, you know, she obviously treats them well."

Chelle: Correct.

Laylla: So, these must just be malicious rumors.

Chelle: Rumors continued. Finally, it was so widespread that a local lawyer was dispatched to her house in 1832 to remind LaLaurie of the, what they called them, here's what they called them, the laws of upkeep of slaves.

Laylla: Oh, wow.

Chelle: I don't know specifically what those laws were.

Laylla: That's so fucked up.

Chelle: But, check it out. However, during the visit, the lawyer found no evidence of wrongdoing or mistreatment. Now, you got to remember, in 1832 in New Orleans, money talks. You give that lawyer $50, because probably $50 back then was a lot of money, and all of a sudden, you've done no wrong. So, keep that in mind.

Laylla: And did they really care about Black people at all? Like, did they even care? Right. If this person who went there to like uphold these laws, what are the odds that they even gave a shit?

Chelle: So, what she ended up doing is after that investigation, she sold a few of her slaves. But, word kept spreading and other socialites were no longer eager to participate in social events with them or interact with the LaLaurie family. So, basically, everybody started talking shit behind her back because they all kind of, they all, they all believed it. It wasn't proven, but people were believing the hype.

Laylla: It sounds like the rumors persisted to the point where other slave owners were starting to think something bad was going on in that house. Like, what kind of shitbag do you need to be to have other crappy excuses for human beings think that you're not worth talking to? So fucked up.

Chelle: It gets worse. It gets worse. After the lawyer's visit, a neighbor reported that one of Delphine's slaves, which was a girl that was roughly 10 years old.

Laylla: Oh God.

Chelle: Fell to her death from the roof of the mansion while trying to avoid, while trying to avoid punishment from the whip-wielding LaLaurie. Now, the girl whose name was Leah was buried on the mansion grounds. Yep.

Laylla: 10?

Chelle: 10.

Laylla: Oh, God, that hurts my heart. 10 years old. Like.

Chelle: It's a baby. She was a. They fuck.

Laylla: But, she was really trying to in public make it out like, you know, oh, that's fine. But, what happened was she chased the girl around the room with a whip until the child leapt off the balcony to her death to avoid getting whipped, is really like.

Chelle: Oh my gosh. Wow, that's terrible.

Laylla: Like, how bad is that? After that, that led to an actual full-on investigation of the LaLauries, who. Oh, yeah. Who, they were found guilty of illegal cruelty and were forced, they were forced to forfeit nine slaves. But.

Laylla: Is that all of them or is that just some of them?

Chelle: It, it didn't say. It didn't say. But, what happened was LaLaurie persuaded a relative to purchase the slaves and return them to her.

Laylla: Oh, what the hell? Oh, gee, I have to sell my enslaved people as a punishment.

Chelle: But, the point is, is not only did she want slaves back, she wanted those slaves back.

Laylla: Right.

Chelle: Other stories said that, you know, that, that she was doing, she was basically killing slaves throughout the mansion. Like.

Laylla: What? What?

Chelle: Slaves would, they would disappear.

Laylla: What?

Chelle: People around town would see a slave at their house and then just like never see them again. Poof gone. Poof gone. Poof gone. So, then, on April 10th, 1834, fire broke out in the kitchen of the LaLaurie mansion. When the police and fire marshals arrived, they found a 70-year-old woman who was the family cook chained to the stove. She confessed that she intentionally set the fire as a suicide as a suicide attempt because she feared Madame LaLaurie would take her to the torture room as punishment.

Laylla: The what? She would take her to the what?

Chelle: The torture room. And apparently, she had told the fire marshals and the police that the reason she didn't want to is because the cook claimed that anyone taken up to the torture room never came back.

Laylla: Oh, fuck.

Chelle: So, the press gets a hold of this. The bystanders demand that the torture room be inspected.

Laylla: Oh, yeah. But the police didn't look for the torture room right then? Did they not believe her?

Chelle: They didn't know about it. So, that happens. And LaLaurie's denying them entrance. Freaking townspeople mob their damn house, break down the doors, and the police found seven mutilated slave bodies, some hung, some were stretched from their limbs, others were missing body parts. One surviving old slave woman had a wound on her head that left her too weak to walk.

Laylla: Oh my goodness.

Chelle: So, the whole mob attacked this mansion. The surviving slaves were rescued, and basically, investigators found several bodies, including a child, buried throughout the mansion grounds.

Laylla: Oh.

Chelle: Yep. Madame LaLaurie and her family um were able to narrowly escape the mob at the mansion before the mob took control of it, and no one knows what happened to her for the next 15 years. And then they did find out after that Delphine died and was buried in Paris, France in 1949. And now, basically, that mansion, the LaLaurie Mansion, is a landmark of the French Quarter. But like, she never she basically essentially fled the country to avoid persecution. So, she had you said nine?

Laylla: Yeah.

Chelle: There were nine people in the torture room?

Laylla: Yeah. And they found bodies buried all over the the grounds.

Chelle: What kind of did it say what kind of tortures she did to them?

Laylla: Some people were were pulled apart, like you know how they'd tie you down and pull your limbs off.

Chelle: Oh my god.

Laylla: Um some people were hacked up. Their limbs and stuff were removed. They did find slaves that were like missing fingers and toes. So like one of your punishments would be like you'd lose your toe.

Chelle: Wow. Wow.

Laylla: Like stuff that maybe if she sent you to the grocery store, everyday person wouldn't necessarily notice.

Chelle: I got you.

Laylla: The abuse that's not not black eyes, you know, not a busted lip. Like that abuse that can be hidden, that torture that can be hidden.

Chelle: That's terrible.

Laylla: As you can imagine, lots of cries, screams, wailing in the night. Basically, sounds of people being tortured. Sometimes little kids because uh she did have a slave as young as 10 that again she she drove to suicide. What the fuck do you do that you drive a 10-year-old to suicide?

Chelle: How could what the fuck kind of person are you that you could have anyone as a slave? Like what the fuck? Let alone a fucking 10-year-old. Holy shit.

Laylla: I mean, it sounds like this woman was so bad that even other slave owners basically wanted to take her out.

Chelle: Wow. Wow.

Laylla: Like, like I'm not saying owning any slaves is is is a good thing. It's it's not right. It's it's a horrible thing. Even the good slave owners that were good to their slaves, the good ones, they wanted they they were a part of the mobs that were trying to attack trying to get her and act out real justice.

Chelle: Yeah, if if you're if you're so bad that you piss off other slave owners, that's got to be pretty bad.

Laylla: You know, that torture chamber is is still there. The noises and, you know, people people call it they call it uh the House of Horrors. To this day, they call it a House of Horrors. So, you can just imagine the type of the type of activity at a place like this. From what I've heard, you'd know more about this than I would, that New Orleans is just you can't get away from it.

Chelle: Oh, they're everywhere.

Laylla: But like, I mean, she was she would break bones, gouge their eyes out. Like the it was crazy. It was crazy.

Chelle: One of the stories that I had heard about the LaLaurie Mansion that made me want to suggest it to you was I had heard that she would sometimes break their bones and make set them in weird ways and keep them in small cages.

Laylla: She was a fan of prolonged suffering.

Chelle: Oh.

Laylla: She was a fan and that's what she would do when she would like stretch their limbs off is is part of it was she was one of the articles I read talked about how she was very into prolonged suffering.

Chelle: Oh, lovely.

Laylla: Yeah.

Chelle: That's that's bad. That's really bad. That's gross.

Laylla: And it's done a lot of things since then. You know, following the fire and when they fled, it had what they called an uneasy and erratic journey. Isn't that something for a property?

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: It was in ruins for a while. It became an integrated school, a conservatory of music, a home for the homeless. At one point, it was partitioned into apartments. And then it eventually got like a private owner. One owner, apparently, check this out, this is horrible. I shouldn't even giggle. No one ever seemed to own the house for long, as you can imagine, because shit was real there. One owner, apparently, ended up in an asylum. Another fell into a coma.

Chelle: The whole house sounds like it's cursed.

Laylla: Now, this is where I was hooked. There has been an actor that I have like had a crush on since I was a teenager, and everybody thought I was crazy, but I have loved this guy forever. And okay, he's a little cuckoo now, but even actor Nicolas Cage briefly owned this house. But he lost it in foreclosure in 2009.

Chelle: Really? He has a plot.

Laylla: Yeah, Nicolas Cage is is definitely a strange a strange fella. Love the guy. But yeah, he briefly owned this house but did lose it.

Chelle: Nicolas Cage really loves New Orleans, to go down a side tangent just for a moment. I actually saw his future grave plot in New Orleans in the same cemetery where the Voodoo Queen of New Orleans, Marie Laveau, the the cemetery where Marie Laveau is. He has a grave plot there, like right down from Marie Laveau, and it's shaped like a pyramid. It's a white pyramid. So, I'm not surprised that he once owned the LaLaurie Mansion.

Laylla: He uh was was quoted as saying in 2007 that he bought it because he thought it would be a good place to write the great American horror novel. How awesome is that?

Chelle: Pretty horrific.

Laylla: But according to local lore, the reason that no one owned the house for very long, because obviously uh even though Delphine LaLaurie was long dead, it is said that her horrific crimes made it a deeply haunted house, obviously.

Chelle: Yeah, she tortured people for fun.

Laylla: Well, you know, imagine you buy this house and you're hearing torture shrieks and moanings coming from like in the walls. People, some people throughout the years and even relatively recently, going through the house get that smell of they feel like smell burned flesh, or they feel like they hear uh chains being dragged because a lot of these slaves were chained to things, like the cook chained to the stove. They generally, uh as far as figures, will see a large black man in chains and a white woman with glaring eyes. A lot of these ghosts, especially the woman, they believe the woman is actually Madame LaLaurie herself. And some of these ghosts are actually violent. When the house was a school, young girls would allegedly encounter a woman who would grab their arm and leave scratches and bruises.

Chelle: Oh, wow.

Laylla: They've had Well, it wasn't anything for very long. It's so freaking haunted, no one can stay there.

Chelle: They pulled in a medium to the house, and the medium suggested that much of the evil had dissipated, kind of leaving the ghost to wander freely without fear of their former mistress, so to say. It looks really lovely from the outside, but it is a House of Horrors in true nightmares on the inside.

Laylla: That's terrible. You know, these people were like essentially tortured to death. So many people, that's awful.

Chelle: Yeah. Yeah.

Laylla: So, now today, you can visit the LaLaurie Mansion. It's kind of like a touristy kind of thing. And like I said, 1140 Royal Street in the French Quarter. I I want to go, man. You know, you Google it, the pictures look beautiful. How scary can it be? It's so pretty.

Chelle: Pretty scary. Let's bring a Ouija board. Let's bring a Ouija board. Come on, let's do it.

Laylla: No.

Chelle: But, you know, I just I just think that what really makes this true crime, in my opinion, is the fact that bitch got away with it. And I think that was just the time. It was just the way it was back then. It's just the way it was back then. You know, you could get away with stuff by paying people off, and she had the means to just throw money and disappear off to Paris. And it's not like in 1832 we did not have extradition to the United States.

Laylla: Right. Right. What are they going to be like, "Oh, yes, send her back from Paris."

Chelle: Yeah, so you know, she she was able to buy her way to a boat to avoid any any backlash from being a horrific, horrible person.

Laylla: Yeah, a torturer. I mean, she kept slaves, first of all, which is bad enough, and then she fucking tortured them. Well, you know, I am glad that I did find out that a medium had gone into the house and felt that that evil had had kind of lessened and that the ghosts were more I don't want to say relaxed. I mean, you're a ghost.

Chelle: Maybe more at peace or maybe they've been released from there. I would hope.

Laylla: Yeah, I mean, it was described as that they were more free, as free as a ghost can be, I guess. But I mean, you don't want these poor folk being tortured in the afterlife as well, like an eternity of torture. Like they did nothing to deserve an eternity of torture, you know what I mean?

Chelle: It's not their fault. It's not their fault that that's that they were ended up in her clutches. Jeez.

Laylla: Right. And, you know, unfortunately, it's created about two centuries of paranormal activity. I mean, that's this woman literally left her mark on New Orleans.

Chelle: And not a good one. Not a good one at all.

Laylla: Not a good one. So, I appreciate the good lead. It was a very interesting story, but kind of fucked up.

Chelle: Yeah, that's kind of fucked up. Good true crime. Way to go, Chelle. You did a true crime.

Laylla: Woohoo! Oh my god, I did it. So, I'm excited. Laylla's doing the nut house.

Chelle: Okay, one floor, but it was a hospital.

Laylla: Okay. Okay. Where? So, so let's start with your where. What's your location? Tell me where we're going, where we're going.

Chelle: So, we're going right across from the Alamo, actually. To all of our listeners in Texas, drink water. It's hot out. Stay cool. You laugh, you stoner, but I'm serious. It's hot out.

Laylla: No, you're absolutely, absolutely 100% right. You are absolutely totally right.

Chelle: No, that is a really good PSA. That was a good PSA, Chelle. It was very smart. Good one. That was a good one. Smoke lots of weed. If you smoke lots of weed, it won't seem so hot. Right? All right. So, where are we going?

Chelle: We are going to Texas, like you said, very hot. Drink your water.

Laylla: All my exes live in Texas. I wish. Would make it easy. Just they all live there. You could just ignore the whole state and be done with it.

Chelle: So, we're going to San Antonio, Texas.

Laylla: Okay.

Chelle: The Emily Morgan Hotel, Houston Street, right across from the Alamo.

Laylla: Oh my god, I want to go to the Alamo. I think it would be so cool. And there's a haunted place across the street?

Chelle: Well, obviously, we are on the grounds of the Alamo where over 600 people lost their lives. So, anywhere near there So, like this is technically considered like part of a battlefield, is that what you're saying? It technically was part of the battlefield. They say that right now, the Alamo, if you go to Texas to see the Alamo, it's it's very small. There's like a church and another building, I think, and it looks very, very small.

Laylla: So, it's basically kind of like the Gettysburg of the South. Anything in that radius is pretty much spooked.

Chelle: Okay, so a history lesson, little history. The Alamo site sits on about four acres. It was held for 13 days by less than 150 men, including people like James Bowie, Davy Crockett, and William Travis, against the much larger, more experienced troops led by General Santa Anna. The perimeter that the Texans and Tejanos defended was about 480 feet by 160 feet wide. The Alamo Church, that you can still see the ruins of today, sits along the south wall, which was also where the entrance was. Now, the Emily Morgan Hotel, the point of it faces the south wall of the Alamo. The tip of the triangle of the building points to the part of the south wall called the low barracks, which is where Bowie was stationed, and also is where the Mexican troops were finally able to breach the wall and end the siege of the Alamo by basically slaughtering everyone that was inside.

Laylla: Oh, yeah. Yikey.

Chelle: So, the ground itself already has a history.

Laylla: Right.

Chelle: Texas at that time So, this is around the same time as your story, Chelle, which kind of surprised me. This is in This is in the 1830s.

Laylla: Early 1830s. There was some shit going on down South in the 1830s. Right?

Chelle: So, first a little bit of history. In the 1820s, Mexico gained their independence from Spain, and they started welcoming settlers to the area that is Texas. And a lot of them were Americans, among them, you know, Sam Houston and and other famous Americans. In the 1830s, the Mexican government was trying to to regulate the Americans because more and more American people are coming West and coming to Texas. They're really liking this area. At first, Mexico was welcoming them with open arms into the Texas territory.

Laylla: Until enough was enough.

Chelle: Until enough was enough. And then they're like, "You know what? We kind of want to impose a few rules here." And the Americans are like, "You know what? We really like it here. We're going to stay." So, there started to be a conflict. And in 18 in March of 1836, Texas declared its independence from Mexico. So, that same year, that's when the 13-day siege from General Santa Anna from Mexico besieged the troops in the Alamo, who held them off, held them off for almost two weeks. And unfortunately, all died. Anyways, it it was a rallying cry at the time.

Laylla: The numbers weren't in their favor, unfortunately.

Chelle: They were not. Time was not in their favor. There was a lot Different podcast, different thing. However, Santa Anna's cruelty during that battle really inspired the Americans to want to to finish this war, to kind of to do their best. And and a lot of volunteers came in. After this happened, Santa Anna's kind of roaming around and he's sacking farms and stuff. And one of the places is a hotel that's in Mexico owned by a General Morgan. And he takes some of the indentured people there as captives. One of the indentured people was a woman named Emily West, who had taken the name of Morgan because she was an indentured servant, and that's one of the weird fucked up rules they had to follow.

Laylla: They had to take their name? It gets even weirder than that, Chelle. The fuck.

Chelle: Emily West was a free woman of color. So, she was a mixed-race woman. She was a black woman living in the 1830s. Nobody knows for sure exactly what her birth date was. Let me see exactly where she was born. I think She was one of the folks that was actually considered a free person. Correct. At the time, she was born free, and and again, she was biracial. So, Which is why she was born free because she had, yeah. At the time, people of color, even if they were free, had to be indentured for a certain period of time. It's so messed up.

Laylla: And that's and that's how they forced her to change her name.

Chelle: Correct. So, she was born roughly around 1815 in New Haven, Connecticut. And she was free, but due to these like really weird rules, she had to be an indentured servant for the period of a year, which is so fucking dumb. But anyway,

Laylla: I would not have survived in the early 1800s because I would have been like, "Fuck this shit." You know, I would have I would have too. I would have been one of those people burned at the stake for what I would say and do. They would have tied me up, lit my toes on fire, and called it a day.

Chelle: Thank you, Chelle. So, if only, if only. That's why weed is legal because it it makes women anyway. So, Emily West, born 1815, New Haven, Connecticut, born free. However, because she was a woman of color, fucked up rules, has to be indentured for a year. She gets indentured to a General James Morgan. And again, weird rule, takes his name.

Laylla: But for the military, going towards San Antonio?

Chelle: No, I believe he had a hotel in Texas at the time, somewhere in the Republic of Texas. And so, she was going to be a a housekeeper there.

Laylla: A worker, yeah.

Chelle: Yeah. So, while she's there doing this indentured servant bullshit, Santa Anna's troops attack this hotel and take her and other people as captives. Now, folk legend goes that Emily West was a beautiful woman, strong, beautiful young woman, and that Santa Anna became enamored of her.

Laylla: So they say. Right?

Chelle: So much so that even his troop movements after she came into camp are weird. He stops early. He sets camp early. He's constantly calling her to his tent. He's just not on his game, so to say.

Laylla: He was in love and not acting like a damn army general.

Chelle: Exactly. His troops are split after the Alamo, and he's got some new troops that come in. He's got about 1,500 men. They're in an unprotected location, and he decides to call Emily Morgan to his tent one morning.

Laylla: Oh god, what a perv.

Chelle: And at the same time, Sam Houston, leading a small group, decides to attack.

Laylla: Is it because they knew that she was going there and that he would be preoccupied?

Chelle: The legend doesn't say, but they do say that she kept Santa Anna preoccupied for 18 minutes in the tent, which was long enough for Sam Houston and his men to overwhelm the much larger forces of Santa Anna and win the battle, the what they're calling the Battle of San Jacinto or San Jacinto. So to win this battle in 18 minutes because Santa Anna was so preoccupied with the most gorgeous Emily Morgan.

Laylla: She did it on purpose.

Chelle: I'd like to think so. Now, part of me wants to be all badass, go girl, woman power, she's amazing. She she's so good in the sack that she kept Santa Anna busy while Sam Houston and his men overwhelmed the forces. They had no direction because their general was getting it on with Emily, who was saving America.

Laylla: But 18 minutes is all she could get out of him.

Chelle: 18 minutes was all she needed. She had him so fucking distracted that he wasn't found until the next day, and rumors say he was either hiding amongst his army in a private's uniform, or he was found hiding wearing a woman's bathrobe and slippers.

Laylla: I want to go with the woman's bathrobe and slippers because that just sounds better. He was probably just as a private in his army, but I'm just going to remember it as a bathrobe and slippers.

Chelle: Right? Good visual. Now, however, reality says she was an indentured servant. She was a woman of color.

Laylla: Okay.

Chelle: Okay.

Laylla: Oh, does that mean that they killed her?

Chelle: No, no, no, no, no. What I'm saying is she's a she's a black woman who had been captured, and she had been an indentured servant when she was captured. Odds are she was not in that tent of her own free will.

Laylla: Oh, absolutely not.

Chelle: So, as much as I want to be like, "Yo, girl power, woohoo! You know, that pussy saved America. Way to go, Texas. Yeah." You know that's not how it went down.

Laylla: It's not, you know. No, she was probably brutally, sexually assaulted time and time and time and time and time and time again.

Chelle: And even if she wasn't, what kind of agency would she have had back then? She had zero power. So, I would love to think, I really want to think that she knew Sam Houston was coming, that she did what she could to kind of help the Americans. But honestly, do you think she really gave a fuck?

Laylla: Honestly, she was probably, the sad part is, she was probably just doing whatever it took to stay alive.

Chelle: Exactly, exactly. And kudos to fucking her for doing that.

Laylla: That's what a lot of those slaves had to do back then, you know. You just had to fucking grit your teeth to stay alive, because it literally was life and death.

Chelle: And that's what she did. She did. She stayed alive. She took care of business. She did what she had to do. And she made enough of a name for herself that they helped her to get back. She had lost her freedom papers, and so she was having trouble getting back to Connecticut. And they did help her get back, and they kind of lost track of where she went after that. So, at least whatever happened gave her enough of a folklore heroine shine that they they kind of helped this poor black woman who had been captured get back home. So, there was at least that. There's rumors that because of this whole folk heroine thing, this story was recounted to a gentleman named William Bollaert, supposedly on a steamer trip. And I guess this guy was a, um, he was keeping a diary, and so he he wrote that he had met the famous Sam Houston, and Sam Houston had told him the story of how he had won the Battle of San Jacinto in 18 minutes, and that it was all due to Emily West Morgan and her magic in the sack with Santa Anna. So, so when this gentleman's diary was published in 1956, and that's when they found the story of this woman who had supposedly saved Texas. And so she became kind of a folk heroine, and supposedly the song, um, "Yellow Rose of Texas"

Laylla: Uh-huh.

Chelle: was written for her.

Laylla: Oh.

Chelle: Yeah, fun, right? Okay, so the building I'm talking about, this is a long history lesson because I'm talking about the Emily Morgan Hotel. It was named for that Emily West Morgan, the heroine of the Battle of San Jacinto.

Laylla: Now, was it named for her, or did she ever own it/live in it?

Chelle: It wasn't even named for her until it became a hotel in 1986, I believe.

Laylla: Oh, okay. Okay, so it was more like a like a, I can't even think of it because I'm high, but when they like name things after people.

Chelle: Right, no, no, no. It became a hotel in 1984, and they chose the name Emily Morgan specifically to name it after the folk heroine. So, no, other than the fact that it was built on the site of the Alamo,

Laylla: She never lived there, she never owned it. Okay, okay.

Chelle: she didn't have anything to do with it.

Laylla: Okay.

Chelle: But she was kind of close to it, and it was built on the site of the Alamo, so it was all

Laylla: She was more she was more tied to the location than the building itself.

Chelle: Correct. Now, the building itself is kind of trippy. It was built in 1924, and it was meant to be a a like a state-of-the-art medical arts facility. It was built by a builder called J. M. Nix, and apparently a famous architect named Ralph Cameron. And they decided to build it in this unusually shaped spot in San Antonio. And it was it only kind of allowed for a triangular-shaped building.

Laylla: Okay.

Chelle: So, they made it a three-sided, triangular-shaped building. First, so that's interesting right there. Now, we all know from Ghostbusters and in magic, a three anything three-sided, that's kind of magical. It's it's plus it's outside the norm, so you're already starting to have some interesting things go on there. So, they wanted it to be kind of like the Flatiron Building in New York City, and they built it to be 13 stories tall.

Laylla: Are they just asking for trouble? Did they just put Ouija board wallpaper up? Like, what?

Chelle: So, but, shall shall, now come on, to mitigate the fact that they made it 13 stories tall, they called that floor 14.

Laylla: Oh, so let's just pretend like there's just no. 12, 14.

Chelle: That's right, that's right. So, that erases the whole bad luck of making a triangular building 13 stories tall. So,

Laylla: What is wrong like like did people not there somebody had to say, "Wait a minute. Should we go ahead with this?" And then there was somebody who was like, "Yeah, it'll be fine."

Chelle: Yeah, they built this 13-story tall, triangular-shaped building in the Gothic Revivalist style, which is like the creepiest, spookiest type of architecture that you can get.

Laylla: Why didn't they just summon the aliens to build it for them at that point?

Chelle: It gets better. Because it's a medical building, they decided what better to put on our spooky, Gothic-looking, three-sided, 13-story building but gargoyles.

Laylla: Oh, Jesus. Come on.

Chelle: It is covered in gargoyles everywhere on the outside, terracotta gargoyles everywhere. And better yet, they each have an ailment of some sort because it's a medical arts building.

Laylla: Oh my god. Like, you can't make this up.

Chelle: So, there's broken legs, and stomach aches, and headaches, and toothaches, and poked eyes, and all sorts of gargoyles.

Laylla: Gee, I wonder why we have some paranormal activity here, folks.

Chelle: It's like they designed it to draw in ghosts. Let's build it on a place of horrific sacrifice where so many people lost their lives. Let's make it a weird shape, 13 stories,

Laylla: 13 stories.

Chelle: put some gargoyles on it, just icing on the cake. So, most of the of the building contained mostly offices. It was doctor's offices, dentist's offices, and and like all their like patient rooms.

Laylla: Right.

Chelle: The seventh floor was the psychiatric ward.

Laylla: Oh, so, oh, I got you. So, not only did they have like regular like hospital-type stuff, they still had the funny farm on the top floor.

Chelle: Most of the floors were just offices. Like, you would go to your doctor's office and be seen in some of their patient rooms on one of the floors, or you'd go to your dentist's office, right up to the like the 1970s, I believe.

Laylla: Oh, wow.

Chelle: And on the, so the seventh floor was the psychiatric ward. They had on the 12th and 13th, oh, excuse me, 14th floors,

Laylla: There's no such thing.

Chelle: that's where they had the hospital and the surgery ward. So, they had it was a 50-bed hospital. Which, just just by default, you're going to get people who die horrifically during a surgery or a procedure, and unfortunately, that's the nature of healthcare. So, there's going to be that that vibe as well.

Chelle: The morgue and the crematorium was in the basement.

Laylla: Oh.

Chelle: So, the 13th, I'm sorry, the 12th and the 13th floor were where the hospital and the surgery rooms were. So, it was a 50-bed hospital, and they had quite a few surgical theaters as well. And the reason they put it on the top two floors was so that the smell wouldn't bother the people in the offices. It would stay up high, and they could open the windows.

Laylla: That makes, unfortunately, smell like that rises.

Chelle: The smell never left, shall.

Laylla: What?

Chelle: One of the things that people report, in particular on the 14th floor, is that it still smells like a hospital. People will still smell like a band-aid smell or antiseptic.

Laylla: That, that, that hospital, we all know it. Every single one of us knows that hospital smell.

Chelle: And it's one of those, this is one of those places that has so many hauntings that are the same. It's the same story repeated over and over again.

Laylla: It's obviously consistent in in, yeah.

Chelle: And what is this today?

Laylla: It's a hotel.

Chelle: Oh, Jesus.

Laylla: You can go stay at.

Chelle: This is definitely one of those where it would be like, "Bring the Ouija board."

Laylla: Right? So, while it was a medical arts facility, there were rumors of some things that went on on the seventh floor, but nothing at all that I can confirm. I couldn't even really

Laylla: Were they were they one of the testing sites at all for like lobotomies or shock treatment or anything, did you see?

Chelle: Not that I could find. I couldn't even 100% confirm that there was a psychiatric ward here, just a lot of rumors, and rumors that things like that happened here, but nothing definitive. It was definitely a medical arts building. Whether there was a floor developed to a psychiatric ward or not is up for debate.

Laylla: But again, even having surgical floors, people were going to end up, obviously, dying under some shit circumstances, just by default.

Chelle: They definitely did have a morgue and crematorium in the basement. Staff is only allowed to go there unless the haunted elevator takes you there.

Laylla: What? So, the ghosts decide who gets to go to the morgue now?

Chelle: The elevator in this hotel is extremely haunted.

Laylla: Oh, I wonder why, in my god.

Chelle: So, it's often reported that it will take people to floors that they didn't push, and sometimes it will even take people to the basement that's supposed to be only able to be accessed by staff.

Laylla: Like a like a like one of those key card things, yeah.

Chelle: It'll just go there anyway without the key card?

Laylla: Yeah, sometimes it'll take people there. It it's a well-known haunting. This is the elevator taking people to odd places is one of those consistent stories that I could find, uh, personal accounts all over the place of people having it happen to them.

Chelle: Wow.

Laylla: Even taking them down into the basement where the smell of burnt flesh is still a common ghostly happening.

Chelle: And that, that's just like my story with the LaLaurie Mansion. People could still smell that burning flesh.

Laylla: Smells are one of those things that are are very memory-triggering. So, I can imagine it's one of those things that on that stone tape, on that like recorder thing, that probably kind of sits pretty pretty strongly.

Chelle: Yeah. Absolutely, absolutely.

Laylla: Mostly while it was a hospital, there weren't a lot of stories. It operated as a medical facility until, um, for about 50 or so years.

Chelle: That's a good chunk of time, honestly.

Laylla: And then it was an office building. In 1976, it was purchased and turned into office buildings, but it only stayed that way for a little while. And and then it became the Emily Morgan Hotel. It was purchased by Hyatt DoubleTree, I think.

Chelle: Oh, wow.

Laylla: Oh, DoubleTree by Hilton, Hilton DoubleTree. Yeah, so it's a Hilton DoubleTree. It's a DoubleTree by Hilton Hotel.

Chelle: Oh, wow.

Laylla: Yeah, so they purchased it, and it's it's recognized as a historic hotel of America. It has also been named as one of the most haunted hotels in America in a bunch of different

Chelle: Really?

Laylla: Yeah, by by several different polls. In 2020, uh, 2021, Historic Hotels of America ranked the Emily Morgan Hotel as one of the top 25 most haunted historic hotels in America.

Chelle: Oh, wow. That's cool.

Laylla: Let me get into some of the ghostly sightings at this hotel because they are numerous. I have so many. Are you ready?

Chelle: I am ready.

Laylla: You got a joint, shall?

Chelle: I do have a joint.

Laylla: Yes, you've got those, um, those tasty

Chelle: Pre-rolls.

Laylla: tasty pre-rolls, nice.

Chelle: They're very delish, delish. I can't even tell you how delicious.

Laylla: Okay, so wait till I tell you some of the spooky things. Now, as a hotel, there's floor 12 and then floor 14.

Chelle: Because apparently we're silly and are going to forget the 13th floor.

Laylla: In addition to that, they go one step further. There's no room 1408 on the 14th floor.

Chelle: Why? What's 1408?

Laylla: The numbers add up to 13.

Chelle: Oh, Jesus.

Laylla: So,

Chelle: Is there a room 13?

Laylla: I think there is. I'm pretty sure that's the only floor they do that on, the 13th floor. Now, the seventh floor, again, was the psychiatric ward, and it's rumored to be the most haunted floor. Although, even the staff of the Emily Morgan will tell you the entire hotel is haunted. So, the 12th and 14th were the surgical theaters and the hospital, and the basement was the morgue crematorium. On the seventh floor, people will report seeing that one of the things that they see is a woman in white ghost, shall.

Chelle: Here we go with the woman in white again.

Laylla: There's always a woman in white.

Chelle: The woman in white travels the country like no ghost I've ever seen.

Laylla: The world, she's around the world.

Chelle: She's a world-renowned ghost.

Laylla: She is. So, she is the bride. She's called the bride, and no one is sure who she is, but she is seen, again, she's one of those very ubiquitous ghosts. Everyone sees the bride. Or worse yet, hears her scream in the middle of the night.

Chelle: I'd rather see them than hear them scream, to be honest.

Laylla: It's so common, I saw people's reports of that they heard this scream, that they were on the seventh floor, and they heard a scream after midnight or right around the witching hour. They called down to the lobby and were immediately told, "Oh, you're on the seventh floor? That's the ghost bride."

Chelle: Yeah. You couldn't have you couldn't have told me that when I checked in.

Laylla: Right? They will. The staff will tell you the ghost stories, and if you ask for a haunted room, they will direct you to the most haunted open room for your stay. They'll be happy to do it.

Chelle: Why would you not? Why would you not ask for the most haunted room? Isn't that why you're staying there to begin with?

Laylla: Right? But the whole place is haunted. So, this ghost bride, a woman in white, will be seen walking the hallways, shrieking sometimes. She's rumored to be a bride who committed suicide, but I couldn't find any truth to it. But she's seen by so many people on that seventh floor.

Chelle: I've noticed that, though, some of the local legends and the folklore, although not necessarily properly documented, do have, if not full truth, a lot of truth to them. So, I do tend to to take a little credit to some of those folklore, word of mouth. You can't necessarily find a news article on it, but everybody in town for the last eight generations talks about kind of stories.

Laylla: Yep, when I was looking for people's personal stories, I saw so many firsthand accounts of people on the seventh floor having heard a blood-curdling, spine-tingling scream at 3:00 AM on the seventh floor.

Chelle: Yeah, but you you got to remember, medical care back then was not kind.

Laylla: And if it was actually the psychiatric facility, could this ghost bride be a woman be a woman who lost her mind at the time, and maybe she's not in the white of a bridal gown, maybe she's in the white of a medical inpatient

Chelle: Straightjacket.

Laylla: straightjacket. Maybe she is. And, you know, nobody really knows, but she's said to pop into one room and then out, and there's actually, um,

Chelle: And that could have been the room that was associated to her.

Laylla: That's possible. In October 2021, Amanda M. says that she heard the screaming lady ghost on the seventh floor one of the nights of our stay. And another gentleman on that floor said that he saw, oh no, this was on the ninth floor, another gentleman on the ninth floor said that he saw a black hand reaching down into the room from the corner.

Chelle: Ah! The the hand from the abyss. Oh my god, that would be more freaky than seeing the whole body.

Laylla: On the 12th floor, people will often hear gurneys creaking and rolling down the floor at night.

Chelle: Like that creaky creak, yeah.

Laylla: And even weirder still, this is the floor where people who don't even know that the place is haunted will be like, "Yeah, it was really strange. I came back to my room from dinner, and my bathtub was full. And the water was this really strange blue."

Chelle: What? Why would the bathtub be full?

Laylla: Nobody knows. On that floor, people will often report hearing sounds of water running or dripping, and they very often report leaving their room and coming back and finding their tub being full, sometimes with oddly blue water.

Chelle: What's with the blue water? Is because it looks anesthetic?

Laylla: I don't know. Nobody seems to really know.

Chelle: Because remember back in that time period, like they would fix everything everything would be sanitized by that weird blue water.

Laylla: Maybe that is it. Cole Siefken, the hotel's general manager, says that on the 12th floor, guests will report that all their faucets are turned on, and all they can hear is running water. And so they call down to the front desk because they're scared.

Chelle: "Oh, you're on the 12th floor."

Laylla: That's what they say, and they say, "Go into the bathroom." And so people go into the bathroom, and there's nothing. Even though they can hear the water right up to the threshold of the bathroom, when they go in, it stops.

Chelle: Imagine the training for being a a front desk person at this hotel. Okay, so, when everybody calls from the seventh floor, tell them it's this ghost. And when they call from the 12th floor, tell them it's this ghost. Like, what's the training like to work there?

Laylla: Right? And it doesn't even stop with guests. Like, the hotel sales manager, a woman named Deborah McNabb, she stayed there. She knows there's something paranormal going on because it happened to her. When she stayed in the Emily Morgan Hotel, she left to go get dinner, came back to her room, and her tub was half full of cerulean blue, sky blue water, bright bright blue. She said it was so blue, it looked like someone had to have put some type of dye or chemical in the water.

Chelle: Oh.

Laylla: Now, she said she was with a friend, so she's she asked them if they had run the water, and they were like, "No, I didn't do it. Did you do it?" She's like, "No, I know I didn't do it." And then she's like, "Hey, I work here. I'm going to have them run the keycard system and see who entered the room."

Chelle: Not a soul, I bet you.

Laylla: No one had entered the room from the time she and the person she was staying with had left for dinner until they came back.

Chelle: That helped her because now she has better selling points to all of us ghosty folk.

Laylla: That's it. Only her key was the one who had checked in, so so she knows. Now, I've told you about the elevator.

Chelle: There's more?

Laylla: Oh, there's so much. The elevator will take people to the wrong floor. Like, you'll push six, and it'll take you to seven. It likes to take people to the haunted floors, and sometimes it'll mess up and take people to restricted floors, like the basement. Sometimes when it takes people up to the 12th floor and they're not supposed to be there, when the doors open, they report that it looks just like a hospital.

Chelle: Oh, no shit. Like that mirage?

Laylla: Yes, exactly like that. And they get freaked out, and the doors close and open again, and it's back to normal, and it's the hotel.

Chelle: I would love having that happen.

Laylla: People say that when the the elevator will take them to the basement, or when they try to call the desk to tell them what's happening, either they can't get through to the desk, or when they call the desk, the front desk, they're just like, "Oh, yeah. You know, we know that that happens. The hotel does that."

Chelle: Awesome.

Laylla: And the people that work there say sometimes when they answer the phone that's calling from the elevator, it's an empty elevator. There's no one there. Sometimes the elevator just rings the front desk.

Chelle: It just calls itself.

Laylla: That's right. It just calls them for no reason. And when they go to the basement, it's super scary because very often they can hear moans and what sounds like the whoosh of fire and smell burning flesh.

Chelle: Like a like somebody's getting put into the the incinerator, basically.

Laylla: And just like in the scary movies, when it takes you to the incinerator basement, it won't budge.

Chelle: Oh, shit.

Laylla: It's awful. So, some more stories are, let's see. Oh, here's one. I loved this one. So, this one is from a gentleman named Mike, and he he says he stayed at the Emily Morgan around 2010. He said he was traveling alone without his wife, and he stayed at this beautiful hotel because he said it was smaller and more historic than the nearby Grand Hyatt.

Chelle: And haunted.

Laylla: And haunted, which he knew. The hotel down the street was where he was attending a convention during the day. And at night, at the last night of the convention, they had a formal ball, and he had brought along a tux. But again, because his wife didn't attend with him, he was he was going stag. He was going to go all by himself. So, he says he's dressed in his tux. He's about 40 years old at the time, and he thought he looked very handsome and dashing. So, he's in this weirdly shaped lobby of this triangular 13-story hotel. And this bright boy looks in the mirror of this haunted hotel and says, "I wish I had a fine lady from here to join me at this ball."

Chelle: Why didn't he just bring a Ouija board in his pocket? He might as well have.

Laylla: I don't know, but he's looking in a mirror in a haunted hotel and inviting a lady to come with him. Well, guess what.

Chelle: Who came?

Laylla: That night, he had a whole bunch of photos taken of him by a lot of his friends and and colleagues there, and they sent him all these pictures. In every single picture of him, there was a an orb, a round ball of light, either near his heart or near his arm. It was like chest height to where a woman would be standing, and it followed him around from picture to picture, and it would this light would stand exactly like if he had his arm out, would stand exactly as if he had his arm around

Chelle: Like he was posing next to him, like posing for a photo.

Laylla: He is 100% convinced. When he showed these pictures to his wife, they are both 100% convinced that some female ghost, that a woman ghost took him up on his offer to go to the fancy ball.

Chelle: Oh, my god.

Laylla: I have chills. I have chills so bad.

Chelle: You must have loved that part of it because I know you're an orb lover.

Laylla: I do. I love that one. It was so good. But that's one of those orb things that like, why him? Why that particular night when he was stag?

Chelle: Because he looked in the mirror and asked for it.

Laylla: He did, too.

Chelle: It's like rubbing the genie lamp. If you don't rub the genie lamp if you don't want the genie to come out.

Laylla: Right? Right? Here's another one. Another woman who stayed on she didn't stay on any of the particularly known to be haunted floors, but she says this is Diana, and she says that while she was in bed, she felt like someone embraced her, like a friendly hug. And when she looked over her shoulder, she could see an indentation in the bed, even though no one was there.

Chelle: Oh.

Laylla: And what looked like very long, ghostly arms around her. And she said she tried to scream, but no sound would come out because her son was sleeping in the other bed. She wasn't able to say anything until the arms finally uncrossed and let her go, and the indentation disappeared, and then she was finally able to get her son's name out.

Chelle: That would freak me out and make me so excited all in one feeling.

Laylla: She felt like they were friendly. She didn't feel like they were mean in any way, but it was so scary she just couldn't handle it.

Chelle: Just because, you know, you get that, "Oh, my god. I can't get sound out of my mouth."

Laylla: Here's another one. Back in 2016, this family, Fernando and his family, checked into the Emily Morgan, and he gave them a bad review on TripAdvisor. He says, "I know this is not the staff's fault, but the place is haunted. I did not know this when my family checked in. It was only in the middle of the night when none of us, including my eight-year-old, could sleep. It wasn't the beds, and it wasn't the room temperature, although the temperature kept fluctuating, even though we didn't touch it." He said, "We were pretty tired, but we couldn't sleep. And it wasn't the weird noises. And gosh, that was a whole other thing, though." So, they kept hearing weird noises, and the temperature kept fluctuating, and they didn't know the place was haunted. And he said his wife could feel an oppressive feeling that would not allow them to go to sleep. And it was so bad that every time they would try to go to sleep, this like oppressive feeling would get worse, and they just couldn't.

Chelle: It's like they could use TripAdvisor to make the comments, but they didn't use TripAdvisor to know beforehand that it was haunted.

Laylla: Right. He knows now. He said they stayed in room 1107, and that the oppressive feeling and the the strange noises were so bad that his family had to leave, and they were charged an early checkout fee, and they ended up going to another hotel where they slept soundly.

Chelle: Next time, check Yelp out. It'll tell you it's haunted.

Laylla: Right. It seems like this property, honestly, it seems like this property is kind of never-ending. It's like story after story after story after story. That really makes me want to go to Texas, dammit.

Laylla: Yep. Here's another one. They were staying on the 14th floor, and they say that at 4:00 AM

Chelle: The witching hour.

Laylla: The witching hour. So, they say at 4:00 AM, there was a a bang on their door and three other doors right near theirs simultaneously. And they all opened the doors and looked out, and there was no one there.

Chelle: I have a question. So, if I'm not mistaken, I believe we have some listeners in Texas.

Laylla: Yes, quite a few, actually.

Chelle: Our Texas folk, if any of you have been to this Emily Morgan place, I want to know. If you are looking for a vacation spot in your state, go to this Emily Morgan Hotel and tell us what it's like. I want to know. I want to hear some firsthand experiences. And if we got enough listeners in Texas, one of you people, please, I'm begging you, spend a night. Let us know. Like, write us an email, thestonedwitcheshour@gmail.com. I want to hear about your experience in the Emily Morgan Mansion.

Laylla: Me, too. And this last story, Chelle, I'm going to tell you because I know you're going to hate this one.

Chelle: Oh, god. I don't know. Am I going to hate it in its spooky spooky or

Laylla: Well, you're going to hate it because it's spooky, and it's a spooky that you particularly don't like. So, this is also on the 11th floor. Now, again, this whole hotel, everybody talks about the haunted. People have experiences in the elevator. They hear the lady on the seventh floor. They hear the gurneys. They smell so many people talked about smelling the antiseptic and the the weird hospital smell on the top two floors.

Chelle: What could be worse than any of that?

Laylla: Yeah, there's a lot of that that happens. So, this one was on the 11th floor. This was a woman named Sarah. She says that the first night they stayed at the Emily Morgan, their nine-year-old woke them up because he kept hearing things. He kept hearing something talking, and that something kept poking his foot and his back.

Chelle: I do not like people who mess with children. That is a line that ghosties should not cross. Don't go there.

Laylla: So, of course, they told him to go back to sleep. And then the next night, the mom started to get the sensation of something grabbing her feet.

Chelle: That is like, why do they have to touch your feet? Why can't you touch my arm? Why can't you touch my shoulder? Why are ghosts attracted to your feet? It's like my boyfriend. No feet touching, people.

Laylla: And then it would sit on her feet.

Chelle: I have actually experienced ghosts or spirits, what have you, sitting on me and laying on me. And I'll tell you, there's a level of you're unsettled. Not only is the ghost there, but it's like invading my personal space, and there's a little tad of unsettlement that goes along with that, not going to lie.

Laylla: So, she says the only way she was able to get away from it was when she kind of finally pulled her feet up and curled up into a ball and curled up next to her husband because the weight was so oppressive she couldn't handle it anymore. They were staying there with a friend, and this friend said that they wanted to check out some of the more haunted floors or the more notoriously haunted floors.

Chelle: What, was that not enough for them?

Laylla: That wasn't enough, apparently.

Chelle: That's that's something I would do. I'd be like, "Wait, they're just fucking with my feet. I need more."

Laylla: So, they wanted to go to the seventh floor, and they did. And standing in the elevator, they could hear the screams of the lady on the seventh floor.

Chelle: Oh, my god. I don't know if at that point I'd even step out of the elevator.

Laylla: They couldn't because the doors closed, and it took them to the ninth floor on its own.

Chelle: Oh.

Laylla: When they were on the ninth floor, they kept hearing really loud bangs, even though no one else was there.

Chelle: See, I have this fear of plunging to my death, so I would not be down with the whole fucking with the elevator thing because in my mind, I'd be like at any moment, these cords could snap, and I'm plunging to my death. So, I would actually not be a fan of the elevator elevator thing just because of that fear I have, you know what I'm saying?

Laylla: Exactly. Exactly. So, this, I mean, it's in a very historic part of San Antonio. It's you have a view of the Alamo. So, if that's something you want to see, it's on the it's on the site of where

Chelle: Probably gorgeous. That's the thing. It's probably gorgeous.

Laylla: It is a very pretty hotel. It's a little dated from what some people say now, but still a nice hotel.

Chelle: Part of the charm.

Laylla: Part of the charm. And it sounds like there is an awful lot going on there. So, even though it's not a it's not an asylum, it was a hospital for a very long time. So, how did I do, Chelle? Did I do a good job?

Chelle: You know, I think you did good. And and I know that this was way out of your comfort zone.

Laylla: It really was.

Chelle: Actually, the true crime was a little out of my comfort zone as well, but I was able to to keep it under control because of the ghosty aspect. But we both got very we both got very interesting properties.

Laylla: Very much so. Right around the same time, right around when there was a lot of shit going on.

Chelle: And in the same and in a similar part in America. I mean, you're talking Louisiana and Texas in the 1830s.

Laylla: And unfortunately, at those times, they really did not treat Black people well at all. I mean, what the fuck? And so, your story and mine kind of highlighted that a little bit.

Chelle: You know, unfortunately, those spirits are just soaked into that land. They're just soaked into that land. And we've talked a thousand times that sometimes it's more about the land. Like with your story, a lot of the issues that came about were from the property before the building was even in existence.

Laylla: Exactly. Exactly. The battles that happened there. And then to name it after that woman who probably went through such horrific things.

Chelle: They probably meant to like commemorate her memory, and I'm sure their intentions were good, but I think they just kind of dug up some shit.

Laylla: I think so, too. And as we've seen, here you have it all. I mean, you you have a trifecta, if you will, because you have the site of a horrific battle where so many people lost their lives. And and then you have the

Chelle: A magically inclined building.

Laylla: A building that's shaped to be drawing energy and holding it there.

Chelle: Yeah. Yeah.

Laylla: And then to have it be this I guess at the time, it was applauded. It was like the tallest building like west of the Mississippi for the longest time. It was like one of the first skyscrapers at 13 stories.

Chelle: 13 stories. Well, you got to remember at that time, you know, west of the Mississippi wasn't really like developed a lot.

Laylla: Right. Right. Right. Exactly. So, this was was a wonder at the time. But so, here's this building that it's built on the site of a battle, a horrific battle. It's built in a shape to draw energy. And and then it becomes a hospital. And and it's got all these gargoyles and stuff on it. You've got to check out some pictures. It's a cool-looking building, very cool-looking building, but it looks like it was designed to be haunted.

Chelle: But that's what I'm saying. It was almost like right from the jump, it was conducive to activity.

Laylla: Absolutely. And then to name it after Emily Morgan. And and again, such a controversial figure, and who knows what happened, whether it was, "Yay, go folklore heroine," or, "Sorry for what happened to you because that's shitty."

Chelle: Whereas in my story, Delphine LaLaurie doesn't even deserve to have that mansion have her name.

Laylla: Not even a little bit. Holy fuck. I mean, things that the the horrific things that that woman did. I know that there are rumors that I've heard rumors that she sewed people's mouths shut.

Chelle: Yeah. Yeah. Like, bitch was crazy.

Laylla: Oh, awful.

Chelle: And and so and and, you know, you were you were kind of tied to your job, literally, like the cook was chained to the stove, and one of the quote-unquote maids was chained to like a laundry tub where they would scrub clothing. Like, you were literally chained to your job.

Laylla: What the fuck is wrong with people?

Chelle: You know, I think back in that time, there were a lot of a lot of people that thought that their wealth and their place in the in the social spectrum gave them

Laylla: And it worked. It motherfucking worked.

Chelle: They felt that it gave them the right to be that way.

Laylla: I mean, she fucking lost her mansion, but she fled to fucking Paris and had nothing happen.

Chelle: No consequence. No consequence.

Laylla: That's bullshit.

Chelle: The only consequence was she lost her mansion.

Laylla: Fucking That's No. But on that note, you're taking your final hits, too.

Chelle: I am. I'm about out.

Laylla: Those of the pre-rolls are gone, and it and it's time to wrap up this festive show. Listen to me being all Laylla-like.

Chelle: You did it so good. I'm so impressed, Chelle. I love it. I love it.

Chelle: This like flip episode, like, I don't know, I got all like

Laylla: This was a lot of fun.

Chelle: I got like all responsible podcaster on this episode, right? So, we want to thank you for joining us tonight for The Stoned Witches Hour. Check us out wherever you check stuff out. I don't know, Spotify, YouTube, Apple Music. Get us on Instagram, thestonedwitcheshour@gmail.com. Find us places because, you know what, it's fun to listen to high people who just sometimes go off on tangents, and that's what Laylla and I do here.

Laylla: That is what we do. We like to have the good edibles, the good weed, and all the good spooky stories.

Chelle: So, next week, Laylla and I will be reverting back to our normal roles where she's the responsible one, and I'm the one who's too high to have my shit together half the time. So, this is Chelle, reverting back to Chelle now, and we'll hand it back to Laylla for a more Laylla and Chelle episode next week. Sound good? Does that sound good?

Laylla: Oh, this was so much fun, though, Chelle. We'll have to do it again. Although, I think I am probably going to do true crime next week.

Chelle: Yeah. Yeah. Oh, no. I think we better go back to our I, you know, I have been looking at so much stuff out there lately. Like, there has been alien sightings, there's been pink clouds in the air.

Laylla: Pink clouds, pink sauce, all the things.

Chelle: Yeah. So, so I am I am ready to get back to my groove. Um, you can have your true crime back because I have got a bunch of shit in store for next episode.

Laylla: Oh, I am so excited to get into it, Chelle. This is going to be so much fun. And if you want to know what I'm going to talk about, I guess you're going to have to tune in next week, huh?

Chelle: Tune in next week for episode 28. Oh, this has been episode 27 of The Stoned Witches Hour.

Laylla: Forever 27.

Chelle: Ooh. Oh, god. Don't go there. That's scary. Oh, my goodness. What is that, the what episode is that, the Haunted Tunnel made of Elon Musk's money and the Almost 27 Club? Yeah, check out that episode. Right? But thank you for listening to episode 27 of The Stoned Witches Hour. Join us next week at 4:20 AM for episode 28.

Laylla: Stay high. Stay spooky. We're going to get down with some ghosty true crime next week.

Chelle: All right. So, everybody have a wonderful week, and we will see you next Wednesday at The Stoned Witches Hour.

Chelle: I need more weed, I think. I need more weed, I think.
