Laylla: I'm going to put a little bit of bubble hash on here, just because I can. I say that a lot.

Chelle: You've been good.

Laylla: I have been pretty good. I have been pretty good. It's witchcraft. I don't have an intro written down, so let's see if I can wing one. Hey, it's 4:20 a.m. Hi, and welcome to The Stoned Witches Hour. On this podcast, two best friends on opposite coasts of the United States swap, uh-oh.

Chelle: Stuff, like ghost stories and hauntings and like paranormal and like true crime and like cryptids, like that kind of stuff. A little witchy, a little weed, that's the stuff.

Laylla: Uh, let's see here. Welcome to episode 31 of The Stoned Witches Hour. Representing the West Coast and all things weedy and witchy, I'm Laylla.

Chelle: And on the East Coast, which is the best coast, this is Chelle, and I'm high, and I'm witchy, and I'm glad to be here.

Laylla: I'm glad you're here, too. I've been missing you lately, and I've been very much looking forward to coming out there in a little bit.

Chelle: You need to get your ass out here, Laylla, like for real. And our listeners want you to get out here so that we can do our spooky, spooky October episodes.

Laylla: Episodes. Those on location, first of all, Salem, Massachusetts in the fall, how fucking cool is that going to be? I mean, you know, you live there, but.

Chelle: That's just my life.

Laylla: Yeah, you're like, "Oh, yeah, that's just my my witchy, awesome, fabulous, magical life."

Chelle: Just my life, man.

Laylla: It's amazing. It's amazing. So cool that you ended up there. Would you have ever thought that?

Chelle: Absolutely not. Absolutely not.

Laylla: We have Have we been there together? Have we ever been in Salem together?

Chelle: We have not.

Laylla: That's so weird. We have both been there separately, but never together.

Chelle: Yeah, I had only been here one time ever in my life prior to being here now, and that was just within the last eight, nine years. So, yeah, no, we we have never done this together.

Laylla: I cannot wait. Our first time together in Salem, and it's going to be for our Halloween episodes, and we are going to visit I mean, when we had our planning session and we were talking about these episodes, I cannot freaking wait. These are some of the coolest places, some of the most historical places. I I just can't wait.

Chelle: I walk past these places on my lunch break from work. Same old, same old.

Laylla: I'm so jealous. So jealous. Just because I live down the street from Angelina Jolie is not quite as cool as living in the same city where Hocus Pocus 2 was just filmed.

Chelle: You know, there's a funny little thing for all you listeners out there who love Hocus Pocus. It was not ever, ever, ever filmed in Salem, Massachusetts. It was filmed in Rhode Island. Boom, I just burst the bubble.

Laylla: I swear I heard they were filming in I'm No.

Chelle: No, crap. They they filmed that shit in Rhode Island. They were never, ever in Salem, I'm telling you.

Laylla: I'm I'm I'm shocked. I'm flabbergasted. I'm I feel so disillusioned. I'm still going to watch it, and I'm still probably going to love it, so don't care that much, but wow, I didn't know that.

Chelle: And as my sweet love just wanted to point out to all of our listeners, there were scenes in Hocus Pocus 1 that were filmed in outside buildings. None of the actors were here, but outside buildings were filmed in Salem for the first one, 20-whatever years ago. That is not the case for Hocus Pocus 2. Not one iota of a second of Hocus Pocus 2 was filmed in Salem. Not a millisecond.

Laylla: I'm kind of disappointed, to be honest. I I love Hocus Pocus.

Chelle: They did film outside the Ropes Mansion and, you know, the house on Ocean Avenue and all that for the first one, but everything for the second movie, not filmed here.

Laylla: I'm so sad. I'm so, so sad.

Chelle: And you know, we've actually talked about a very famous pop culture witch here in Salem, Bora, Bora Snaggletooth the 13th. Shout out to Bora. Anybody who listens to Salem the Podcast, listen to them, very cool podcast. They actually recently talked to Bora. Bora was a extra in Hocus Pocus 2 and talks about how it was filmed in Rhode Island as well.

Laylla: Fantastic. I cannot wait to see Bora in Hocus Pocus 2. I don't know if you follow his Instagram, but they're on Instagram, and you can see all the wonderful things that that they get up to. Love Bora, love Salem. Cannot wait. I'm going to have to listen to Salem the Podcast.

Chelle: Actually, I think on on Instagram, Bora is under Salem Black Hat Society.

Laylla: Perfect. Thank you for that shout out. So go follow Salem Black Hat Society and get your Bora fix.

Chelle: And while you're at it, why don't you just follow us on Instagram while you're just following people on Instagram? Cuz we're The Stoned Witches Hour.

Laylla: And don't forget, send in your spooky stories to thestonedwitcheshour@gmail.com for our next upcoming Your Stories episode where we read your scary stories, your weedy, witchy stories.

Chelle: I had so much fun the other day. I was responding to emails, and it was I I was just like, "Wow, we got email. People email us. Can you believe that?"

Laylla: I do. People like us. I don't understand, but it's been fun, and they're cool people. We have some pretty interesting peeps that follow us, and I I really love hearing their stories and all the things they send in. It's pretty interesting and scary.

Chelle: I got some interesting feedback the other day, and it's from someone who knows both of us, and they were like, "Yeah, Laylla seems like such the organized one, and you're like all over the place." I'm like, "Oh, my god, that is so the opposite."

Laylla: I'm so glad my my podcast persona comes across as having it all together. I got you all fooled.

Chelle: I had to laugh because I'm like, "Are you kidding me?" Because I'm usually the one with like all this shit written down, and I got notes, and I got, you know, websites up. I've got things planned out five months in advance, and then they're like, "Oh, yeah, Laylla's the organized one." I'm like, "Right."

Laylla: We're the odd couple, Chelle. I'm telling you, we're the odd couple, and I just seem like I'm the anal-retentive, got it all together. And that's why we love you. That's right. That's right. I just pretend. Speaking of being all giggly and high and silly, what on earth are you smoking tonight?

Chelle: I am smoking the best shit I have had in a while. My sweet husband happened to go up to a dispensary in Riverside. Shout out to Empire Gardens, which we love because, you know, it's kind of a callback to, uh, New York City, New York State, the Empire State. It's hard to escape it. There's no escaping that New York State of mind.

Laylla: It's a mentality.

Chelle: It's a mentality.

Laylla: It's right.

Chelle: But yeah, so he picked up something called Black Triangle OG, which is an indica-dominant. Oh, so freaking good. This would be right up your alley, Chelle.

Laylla: What's what's the THC content? I got to know.

Chelle: Now, you ready for this one?

Laylla: What, what, what, what?

Chelle: This is a mule kick to the forehead, drop you to your knees, make you start drooling and forget your own name, 34% THC.

Laylla: And that's what I call a good Friday night.

Chelle: I've just started smoking it, and, whew, it is gassy. Talk about gasoline. You get that I'm pumping up my gas summertime and that the gas smell smacks you in the face. I'm pumping up my Who, what, do you pump down your gas, too? That's right. Pump it down, pump it up, pump it sideways. I don't know. I don't know. You get that gas smell in your face, you don't know what you're doing. But yeah, no, it smells What does it taste like? Same as it smells. Um, I would not say this is a fruity or a green. This is kind of got that, um If you want the mule kick, you're not getting the good taste. Is that what you're saying? I don't mind a gassy taste. I I don't mind that I don't mind that sharp kind of smell and taste. It's not my favorite. Like, this is not one that I would smoke just for smoking just for the taste and aroma alone. I mean, I like gas. It's good. A lot of people like the smell of gas. Who doesn't? You laugh, but you know you do. So, but it's it's good. Um, the the I I forgot. What were we talking about? 34% THC, that's about where I'm stuck.

Laylla: I've gone back to one that I like. I was able to find it again, Endgame. The shit is good. The shit is good. Remember last time I did Endgame, I think it was a two-hour episode because I didn't stop talking.

Chelle: And we love the episodes where you keep talking. That's fantastic. How's what's Endgame like? How do you like it?

Laylla: Very uppity. I I think I had said this before, it's one of those you can kind of manipulate. So, I'm kind of manipulating it into the uppity fashion. But once we end here and are done for the night, I will probably smoke a whole bunch more and kind of gear more towards mellowing into my bed.

Chelle: Nice. Nice. That sounds really good. And I think that's as the episode goes on, I know I'm going to get more and more high because I can feel it already cocooning my body in joy and bliss. I'm melting.

Laylla: Now, I I know how you are, so I do have to ask, is this being topped off with any bubble hash or no?

Chelle: Maybe. Maybe. It's possible. You know, you'd you'd think with a 34% THC that I would not, but Go big or go home. Go big or go home. Hey, hey, you know, it's a good night. I'm happy. It's It's Yeah, there's a little there's a little awesome sauce on the top. Yes. You know me so well.

Laylla: Oh, boy. You know, it it's sometimes it's hard to switch from giggly, giggly to like paranormal, true crime.

Chelle: Tonight, Chelle, I'm Okay, actually, you sobered me right the fuck up because Shit. Shit. You just I don't know. I'll smoke another bong after this, but you just reminded me the topic. I'm not going to get into it yet, but I am going to put a um a disclaimer out there while we're at the beginning. I am doing true crime this evening. And this one's a tough one. This one's really rough. So, I'm going to tell you right now. I'm going to talk about a sexual deviant who's a killer and who has also killed children.

Laylla: Oh.

Chelle: So, this is a tough one. There's a lot to this episode. So, I'm going to tell you right now, you do need a loved one, you do need the higher THC weed, and and be in be in a comfy space if you're going to listen to this episode for real because it's it's a rough one.

Laylla: And as as it could be a total trigger warning for some folks, if you have trauma issues related to those topics, we would not be upset at all if you skip this episode.

Chelle: Yep, absolutely. Skip this one. You know, find another episode. We've got a lot We've got a lot that are interesting. We do talk about some heavy topics, and we try to respect them as best we can, and we try to lighten it up and make it a little more palatable as best we can. But sometimes you can't There's no lightening it up to it to some things.

Laylla: No, no. And I'm not going to sugarcoat something that's serious just for the sake of of a laugh. So, but yeah, skip this one if you need to. It's a tough one. Otherwise, buckle up, bitches, cuz it's going to get absolutely scary.

Laylla: I'm going to talk about a haunted bridge, a little less deep.

Chelle: Sounds very interesting, though. I love me a good haunted bridge.

Laylla: A covered bridge, even better.

Chelle: Ooh, now those have gotten quite the reputation. I I wasn't there a movie or something that kind of catapulted covered bridges into I don't remember. Bridges of Madison County? I don't know.

Laylla: It could be. I I don't know. I don't know. But covered bridges are cool.

Chelle: Covered bridges are super, super cool. But before we jumped into the covered bridges and the true crime and the ghosty-ghosties and the horrible people of the world, I did want to kind of talk about some witchy stuff first.

Laylla: Yes. Yes, definitely. I mean, with Salem just Salem, I'm so ready to go see you. I'm so ready. With Samhain and Salem right around the corner, I am so into the witchy things. We mentioned last episode that we've both kind of been getting back into our witchy, magical groove this year, and I really do feel like it's kind of ramping up. I kind of feel that energy now, um, as the seasons are just starting to think about changing.

Laylla: You know, that kind of brings up something I wanted to to just briefly discuss tonight. Obviously, we could do like eight full podcasts on this one topic. Let's talk about covens versus solitaires because, you know, witchcraft, paganism, Wicca, the whole kit and caboodle, it's exploding. Every day that goes by, it's blowing up even more, it seems. And there are people everywhere. There are Facebook groups everywhere, Instagram pages everywhere about all of these topics. Some people feel like you're not a witch if you're in a coven. Some people feel like if you tell anybody and get in a coven, you're you're, you know, you know, you're going to burn at the stake. Like, let's chat about coven versus solitaire and and maybe we can touch on how we've faded in and out of both of those realms throughout our times.

Chelle: You actually, when you said that, uh Oh, fuck, I'm high. You said, um I have said that. People's perceptions People's perceptions about coven versus solitaire, and that that triggered a um a memory. Do you remember, or were you ever subjected to people telling you that you couldn't be a witch unless you were initiated by a coven or initiated by another witch?

Laylla: Yes. Yes. And people believe that.

Chelle: And people did. I think that was kind of perpetuated by like the Gardnerian tradition where they would have a man initiate a woman and a woman would initiate a man. Big sex pervert. Let's not go there. But I mean, there's there's things to that, um. I'm not going to knock that type of tradition because there it is definitely valid.

Laylla: But that's not the only tradition.

Chelle: It's not the only tradition, exactly. And and that's what we talked about before, one of the things that you and I were both attracted to in this religion is that we can express ourselves in in multiple ways. And now, I am as white as white can be. I have zero history like with like I'm not Celtic. I'm not I'm not a Viking. I'm not I'm not a hereditary witch. I'm pretty much a mutt. I have no idea.

Laylla: You're Laylla.

Chelle: That's right, I'm Laylla. I have no ancestry to fall back on. And I have started actually getting into working with my personal ancestors, but I don't really have like a a claim to any particular type of religion. But I do like them all. I do like studying them. I like I like learning about them. I'm interested in them. And I think that being able to do that, being able to to search and to to admire and to honor all these different traditions is one thing that that we really enjoyed.

Laylla: But you know, and I and I totally agree with you, but there's also the perspective of sometimes it's nicer to just do some of these things with other people. It's almost like some people find it more validating. Somehow, it's a crock of shit if you're doing it by yourself, but all of a sudden, it's it's it means something if you're with a group of people. And then there's also that that myth that it has to be a coven of 13. Like, who came up with that?

Chelle: You know, we could do a whole episode on the weird, different myths that we have heard coming up through this. But yeah, the the idea that you have to be initiated by another witch is is bunk. I think pretty much if you ask almost any witch, I'm not going to say all cuz we are pretty pretty varied, but if you ask any witch, how do you become a witch? They're going to tell you, say you're one.

Laylla: Yeah.

Chelle: You know, if if you want to be a witch, say you're a witch. Repeat after me, "I am a witch."

Laylla: I am a witch.

Chelle: There you go.

Laylla: But now, I was actually formally initiated, and it was this wonderful thing, and I am very glad I did that. Was it necessary? No.

Chelle: Ceremony's beautiful.

Laylla: Absolutely, and and fond memory. But was it like a hard and fast requirement? Absolutely not.

Chelle: No. By the time I did an actual initiation, I had met another person. Um, I was in college and had met another person who was seeking and had just started to to learn about witchcraft, and we did a a ritual together where we each kind of dedicated ourselves to this path and did an initiation. So, I did not get an initiation into into the religion from someone else. But my initiation is just as valid, and just saying you're a witch is just as valid. If this is something that you're interested in, if you're learning about it, you know, that's all you have to do. You can't say necessarily that you're part of a specific tradition if that tradition requires an initiation by another person. Right. I could not say that I am a Gardnerian Wiccan because I have not been initiated into Gardnerian Wiccan traditions. That's not respectful.

Laylla: Right.

Chelle: You know, you should respect the different traditions. So, so saying that you're a witch is perfectly fine, but, you know, if the tradition itself requires an initiation, that's a little bit different.

Laylla: Random question. If you had to pick, what do you prefer? Do you prefer to be a part of a coven or to be solitary?

Chelle: Yes.

Laylla: Yes.

Chelle: Yes. I like them both for different reasons. I loved when we were a coven, when we were part of Circle Amaranth. I loved that. I loved that.

Laylla: We had a blast, and we did great things.

Chelle: We did, and it it was beautiful. It was our rituals, amazing, magical, memorable. Some of the most fabulous rituals I have ever been a part of were rituals that we did as a coven or rituals that we led as a coven. And the magic of those people, I I miss that. Sending love out to them all right now because I miss those people. I miss those souls. Wonderful people.

Laylla: We were a good group. We had a good We had a good vibe.

Chelle: We really did. And so, that's a fabulous thing to do and to have, and I was lucky, we were lucky to have that. And solitary has its own set You can do your own thing. You can do whatever you want. You don't have to fight with your coven mate about the wording of, uh.

Laylla: Diplomacy doesn't factor into solitary work.

Chelle: That's right. And and I would be doing our coven a disservice if I didn't talk about all the times we argued.

Laylla: Right, absolutely. Absolutely. In my living room, I was there. It was rough.

Chelle: You were Yeah, you were there. And you were there, and you were there, and you were there. But yeah, that was but that was all a part of what made the dynamic, right?

Laylla: Yes, because we weren't just yes-ing each other. We were challenging each other. We were asking each other to be better, to do better, to, I don't know, to work better together, to to help uplift the community.

Laylla: And also, I think it's it's it's important to point out that our coven was very eclectic. So, different people brought different traditions to the table. Part of that experience was maybe learning about a different tradition or a different way of doing things that you may not have come across before. So, kind of that eclectic group made us all better.

Chelle: It did. And and and being accepting of that. Like, how often do you see a coven that has so many different traditions all working beautifully blendedly together?

Laylla: And what what were we at the absolute most? Maybe nine or 10 people?

Chelle: That sounds about right. I'd have to count and math is not my strong suit at the moment. But yeah, I would say about that. I'd say no more than 11.

Laylla: You know, we never had 13 people. We were a fab coven. So, yeah. That 13th thing, pshaw.

Chelle: Also a myth. Also a myth. So, coven has its advantages in that you can tap into the knowledge of the other people, into the vast experiences of other people. But you're also tied down to a schedule. And I think that's kind of what did us in at the end is we all got pulled in different directions, work and family and children and just life in general. Because it takes a lot of time. It takes a lot of work to make a coven work. And and we in particular were trying to also put work back into our community to to bring awareness of witchcraft and paganism and bring more acceptance. So, we were trying to be as loud and out as possible. That's a lot of work.

Laylla: We weren't just doing rituals. We were also trying to be a voice and advocate as well, ultimately.

Chelle: And researching for speaking speaking engagements, going to different festivals to present. You know, that that takes a lot. And we worked together. We all worked beautifully together through all of it. And and I like to think that we would still if we got together Oh god, wouldn't that be so freaking Would that not be amazing if we all got together?

Laylla: An Almarra reunion.

Chelle: Oh, Almarra reunion. Oh, your voice to the goddess's ears. It That would be fantastic.

Laylla: Right down to bringing up from New York City.

Chelle: Everyone. It would have to be everyone. It would have to be all of us. Now, interesting point I would like to point out. You would think you moved to Salem, Massachusetts, home of all the witches of the world, you'd think you'd come here and that you would just infiltrate yourself into into into something.

Laylla: Yes. I was totally expected a coven to steal you away from me. You know, that's a myth.

Chelle: You're not doing ritual every day on your lunch break? Well, solitary ritual, but with other witches?

Laylla: No. Like, it's it's very it it's it's not You know, and if we have anybody from Salem listening to this, if you think I am wrong, reach out by email, thestonedwitches@gmail.com, because I am totally having a different experience if you disagree with me. Like, very closed off and not They don't like outsiders.

Chelle: That, unfortunately,

Laylla: is the feeling I get. It's the feeling I get. No one's told me that. No one has said that to my face. But they don't acknowledge you either. So, they'd have to actually acknowledge you to say that to your face. Like, it's it's very not what you would think. Like, I almost feel like I had an easier time infiltrating the pagan community in upstate New York. Like, how weird is that?

Chelle: Well, that community's very permeable. That community's very welcoming. As closed off as they are and as secretive as they are, they're very welcoming compared to a lot of them.

Laylla: Well, I'm finding that out. And I'm actually kind of taken aback, A, because it's 2020 and, you know, our witches here, people, get over it. And, B, I am in Salem, Massachusetts. Why is this difficult? Why? How? It baffles me. I don't know what to say about it.

Chelle: I think that would get to another myth that I believe is true. Covens and practicing groups can be clannish and closed off. And I think that's mostly true. Generally, I do find that to be true. And that can be for a lot of different reasons. And first and foremost is protection.

Laylla: I think around here, it's a lot of, you know, if any of you out there live in a tourist town, no matter what your tourism is, like, tourists, for the love of God. Like, I feel bad because I was a tourist at one point. Now that I'm not, whoa, I'm sorry to every place I've ever been a tourist. I'm sorry. You know, and I think that that maybe some of the closed-offness is because of the tourism.

Chelle: Yeah, they have to protect themselves because anybody can be in in town for a few months renting an Airbnb or whatever. Right. Right. You know? And now you get some wannabe joining your coven that's not going to be there forever, might not have the best intentions. I I imagine that they've had bad experiences in the past. So, protection is probably And and also, you know, I'm in in the situation I'm in, how many people Not that that's why I came here, absolutely not. But how many people just randomly move to Salem, Massachusetts? A lot more than you'd think. So, even because you've just moved here from another area doesn't necessarily make them accepting of you either.

Chelle: Right. Right. It is It is probably one of those places where, you know, kind of locals trump all. So, Laurie Cabot, if you and any of your people are out there listening, I am waiting. Email me. I will show up tomorrow. Let's do this.

Chelle: I'll do basic spell work. I'll grind herbs. I'll I'll chalk out lines. I'll write sigils.

Laylla: For real. For real. I'm there. Call me. Let's do this.

Chelle: I'll do your basic hexes. I'll do your little love spells. Just let me in the door. Right. But, you know, we we had our coven for for a bunch of years and we did a lot of stuff. But, you know, we've kind of after that dissolved, we've probably maybe the better part of 10 years, neither of us have been a part of a coven. Which is kind of shocking considering the past. And just like after a while, some of the dynamics of a coven started to get old, the dynamics of being a solitary gets old. You know what I'm saying?

Chelle: Being a solitary, the biggest benefit is flexibility. I can do ritual anytime that I think of it. I don't have to

Laylla: It also can be boring as fuck.

Chelle: Yes. Solitary is flexible and that's great in the beginning. But, yeah, it does get old. It's just me coming up with rituals. I you and I

Laylla: Can I just say that we just we we're badass witches together. No one can write rituals and spells like we do. I'm sure other good people are out there and I am not just downing other people, but you and I are like a step above.

Chelle: That was one of my favorite things was being in that group and and everyone contributed. Everyone contributed. But it was always you and I. I felt like we were the workhorses. You and I hitched together, we could we could do anything. We could make everything happen. We made amazing rituals happen. And and just like you said, it I love writing spells, I love writing ritual, but bouncing those ideas off of you and off of our coven mates and everyone putting in their input and suggesting changes, we wrote some of the most powerful rituals and incantations.

Laylla: It's almost like when when we do it individually, it's kind of bland. But when we would do it as a group, it just like exploded into its whole its its own whole life.

Chelle: Yeah, it it adds so much richness and dimensionality to it when you have other people to do it with. And it could just be you and your best friend. You know, you and I could do rituals over Zoom if we wanted to. You want to do a ritual next full moon, Shaw?

Laylla: Ooh, we should do that.

Chelle: We should do that. That would be so great. Let's do that. But, yeah, you can people can do that. You don't have to do it by yourself. But I I love both. They both have things that that are good. But I definitely would have to say that maybe we can manifest finding like-minded people, other witches who smoke weed, other, you know, ent-type people who who also like to do magic and celebrate the earth and the goddess and the folklore and ourselves. And hopefully, we can find that. Hopefully, that let's try we'll manifest shall we'll do a little ritual on our next full moon and we'll see if we can pull in some like-minded people, damn it.

Laylla: Where the witches at?

Chelle: Email us. We have good weed. I grow good weed. Shaw packs good weed. We're fun. We like to hang out. We do good ritual. We do. Sometimes high, I'm not going to lie. Oh, yeah, they'll definitely have to be like-minded people. And, you know, that's another thing. Back then, we smoked weed, shocker. And it was accepted mostly in the greater community. It was very much accepted in our coven, even though not everyone smoked.

Laylla: Right, not everyone did. And but it it was okay for those that did and it was okay for those that didn't. So, it was kind of, you know, nobody really judged anybody on anything. And that's kind of also one of the great dynamics we had.

Chelle: It it was. That coven was beautiful to me because we came from all different walks of life. We had college students, you were a a new parent at the time, I was just in a new relationship. We had people in all different all different places. And and like you said, from different traditions. And yet, somehow, the synergy of all that made a Truly worked really well. Worked really well. And I think that's my advice to someone. If you're looking for a coven, know them. You know, make one with your friends first. Absolutely, that's a good idea. But understand there's going to be fights, there's going to be arguments. And and try to work with that.

Laylla: There's going to have to be compromise.

Chelle: Lots of compromise. But if you're finding a coven of people that you don't know, you know, do a couple rituals with them first. Talk to them. Have some, you know, hang out, have some coffee, have some tea, smoke some weed if you're lucky enough. And, you know, see where they're at. See where their traditions are at and see how it feels for you.

Laylla: Are they people Are they people that you would choose to be your friend? If you wouldn't be friends with these people, you probably shouldn't be doing magic with these people.

Chelle: Right. Would you hang out with them outside of ritual? Right. Right. You know, you definitely want people that you can work well with, that you can talk to, that you can Like you said, compromise is going to be a huge thing. So, you have to have that baseline relationship.

Laylla: I think that that, you know, I one of the biggest things that I'm having a problem with in my new environment, not that it's new, I've been here two years, but and I think a lot of people, especially when you're in a smaller city in a smaller town or even a smaller country, just getting people to just want to have that cup of coffee or want to allow you to go to that ritual, that are willing to give you the date and the time and the location, that initial connection, I think, is the hardest.

Chelle: Well, I think you touched on something inadvertently, Shaw. The last two years. We're in 2022. Two years ago was 20 fucking 20. Hey, it's it's We're having a virus. Can I join a coven? Right. This world I guess I didn't think about it that way. It's not just that. It's like right now, the even two years later, the world is a fundamentally different place. People interact differently. You know, we are not as we are not as keen, some of us, to jump right into a stranger's house and 12 other people for the coven, right? You know, and and so people are a little more leery, I think. But I also feel like people are craving connection. So, it's this really strange, you know, I want this and yet I'm pushing it away kind of feeling.

Laylla: I do, I don't. I do, I don't. I do, I don't.

Chelle: Very much so. And and I don't know. Maybe maybe Zoom, like like we do our podcast, maybe maybe some type of virtual thing is is the way to do it. I don't know. But I want festival so much. I want community. I'd love a coven. Shit, if you and I could have a coven together again, that would be the best.

Laylla: All right. So, we need to hunt down. We need to get you up to Salem in October and hunt down a public ritual on Samhain here in Salem, damn it.

Chelle: Ooh. Ooh, ooh, ooh, I like that. Have you So, one place that I've looked for pagans, um, and is Meetup. And I haven't really had too much terrible luck with it. You know, and how did we find the BPC? I think I stumbled into a group of people in college and I I don't know if if that doesn't happen again. I don't know. Covid screwed up everyone.

Laylla: Um, actually, and how how I got in into that group was, um, my ex-husband worked at a retail location and someone that was a part of community came in, got chatty. Next thing you know, we're invited to a ritual. So, yeah, I it wasn't something, you know, that connection kind of just happened. It wasn't I didn't have to like go out and solicit a group to practice magic with. Like, I feel like I need a business card here in Salem.

Chelle: Right. Maybe maybe we're just not looking for it magically. Maybe we just haven't put out those magical feelers. I'm not sure. But, yeah, so solitary I like because I can do pretty much anything I want and no one's going to judge me.

Laylla: True.

Chelle: I can draw my circle in my backyard or wherever I happen to be and I can go skyclad, which is totally naked, and I don't have to worry about anybody at all.

Laylla: But in the in the same respect, you can also do it in your sweatpants and your pajama shirt and no one cares because you're a solitary.

Chelle: Exactly. Or I can dress up in the most fabulous ritual garb that I made for one of our rituals back in the day, you know, head to toe, cool dress and headdress and the jewelry and have the wand and the staff and look like some sort of green goddess motherfucker right out of the woods and and feel fabulous. And I can do whatever I want. And I like that.

Laylla: So, I mean, I guess the moral of the story is both are good. They both have their great points. They both have their downsides. The best I can hope for any witch out there is that you get to experience both sides of that coin, being in a coven and being a solitary, because they are both very valuable experiences.

Chelle: And I didn't even realize, I guess I did not I didn't love our local community enough. I should have loved them more.

Laylla: Oh my god, ever since I've been here, all I've thought about was, you know, at the time, but now, in retrospect,

Chelle: I love those motherfuckers. I miss them.

Laylla: I should have appreciated them more. And I I I I should have appreciated them more.

Chelle: We didn't know what we had. I had we did not know how rare and precious that was.

Laylla: Don't know what you got till it's gone. Yeah.

Chelle: Yeah. Not everybody gets to experience a local community where different solitaries and covens and family triads and different groups all get together. Now that I'm away from that, I am surprised at like I guess I was naive and thought that that was everywhere. We were lucky to have some random 300-strong pagan community in rural upstate New York because, much to my dismay, that's not the case everywhere.

Chelle: It's not. It's not. And I'm so sad.

Laylla: We definitely had a good thing going back then and, you know, one of these days, I'm sure we'll be visiting New York. We we should go. We should go back.

Chelle: We have to. We have to because my heart craves the Fairy Path with all the lit candles of different colors going down heading from the camping field to the ritual field. Yep. And the Almarra Enclave where the where the where the labyrinth is now.

Laylla: Yeah. I I miss that. And I I definitely would like to go back for a visit. But, you know, that's not a long-term solution as I'm hundreds of miles away and you're a couple thousand miles away.

Chelle: Yeah, it would have to be a special case. But, boy, I would love to do it.

Laylla: But, yeah, I mean, it's it's definitely a struggle to try to infiltrate yourself. And I didn't realize that, unfortunately, until now. Who knew, 30 years later, now I'm having a problem infiltrating into the witch community. Who would have thunk?

Chelle: It sounds like we both very much, for the last couple years, have been wanting that kind of connection. And it's been ramping up again, like we've said, the beginning of this year very heavily. And Covid kind of screwed us because, you know, our, "Hey, let's get back into being public and community and doing things with other people."

Laylla: Hey, go lock yourself in your house for two years.

Chelle: Coincided. And so, I guess that's uh Murphy's Law or karma or something. I don't know. I don't even know. But, so, so, yeah, that's that's kind of what I just wanted to chat briefly, I say briefly, here we are like a half hour later. But but now I kind of want to talk about um our stories. And I want to go first because I know that yours is more of a stressful story.

Laylla: Okay.

Chelle: So, I want to talk about this Emily's Bridge.

Chelle: Oh, yeah. Oh, it has a name, Emily. Okay.

Chelle: Emily's Covered Bridge in Stowe, Vermont. So, I decided I do a lot in Massachusetts and New York, so I randomly picked Vermont. And and found this place. It it's, you know, it's one of those old wooden covered bridges. You know what I'm talking about?

Laylla: Yeah, the ones that are super common up in the New England area.

Chelle: Yeah, yeah. They're totally famous in New England. Oh, they're super aesthetic. They're beautiful.

Laylla: They are. But Emily's Bridge has more mystery than the car.

Chelle: Ooh.

Laylla: I find mystery charming. But, you know, hey, that's just me.

Chelle: I think this uh Black Triangle OG is trying to kill me. It's trying to hurt me, Shaw.

Laylla: Love the Black Triangle.

Chelle: I do. I love this Black Triangle. It's such good shit. So, you're saying covered Emily's Bridge is full of mystery?

Laylla: It's full of mystery.

Chelle: Love me a good mystery.

Laylla: It definitely is. And this was built in 1844. Going back to my original theory for like the last 10 episodes, like what is with freaking ghosts in the 1800s?

Chelle: They seem to be everywhere. Maybe it was the spiritualist movement. Maybe all these mediums running around were calling spirits willy-nilly and I don't know.

Laylla: Damn you, Lily Dale.

Chelle: Damn you. When was Lily Dale founded? Oh, we need to do a trip to Lily Dale.

Laylla: Oh my god. Different episode, people. Okay, different episode. For my birthday. Different episode, people.

Chelle: Okay, different episode. Sorry, I'm so fucking high. Go on. Emily's Bridge, mystery, not my birthday, not Lily Dale, got you. Spirits, 1839, go.

Laylla: 1844, still. Oh shit, 1844. I thought I was doing so good. I'm like, I got this. I'm high, but I know it's 1839. You're like, no, 1844. Fuck. So, 50-foot wooden covered bridge, okay?

Chelle: Okay.

Laylla: Now, of course, there was a young woman named Emily.

Chelle: Emily, because it's her bridge.

Laylla: It's her bridge. So, this bridge was still fairly new, apparently, around the 1844 time period. See, and this is this is what I don't understand, and this is what I hate sometimes about history, because I read a few stories that said specifically around 1844 when the when the bridge was built, like right down to it tells you that the wood was still new, smelled of fresh pine, creaked when the horse-drawn wagons crossed it. But then, when you go look at other instances of this bridge, it says sometime between 1849 and 1949. Okay, are you talking a year or 100 years? Because let's just say there's a difference.

Laylla: That's a pretty big gap. That's a very long time period to be like, "We don't know exactly when it was built."

Chelle: No, no, I'm talking about the girl. They know they know it was built in 1844, but Emily, when was Emily there? They don't know. There's a 100-year time period where Emily could have been there?

Chelle: Correct. So, the legend the legend says, and actually, it's not it does have like an official official name, and it's called the Gold Brook Bridge, but nobody really calls it the Gold Brook Bridge, to be honest. They all call it Emily's Bridge.

Laylla: Wow, whatever happened there to Emily was enough that her name imprinted on it.

Chelle: So, she was a young girl, and again, who the hell knows?

Laylla: Was she wearing a white dress?

Chelle: No.

Laylla: No? Okay.

Chelle: I was a shot. I mean, there's a good chance.

Chelle: Yeah, this is not a woman in a white dress story.

Laylla: Okay.

Chelle: But so, sometime, we don't know when, 1849 to 1949, she fell in love with this guy that, we'll just say, he kind of had another girlfriend.

Laylla: Oh. Damn those gigolos.

Chelle: She was insistent that they were going to be together and that this was going to be some wonderful thing, and they were going to get married. Well, her family, not so pleased with the situation, and they were very much against any communication between Emily and this guy.

Laylla: Oh, was he like of a lower station or something?

Chelle: Cheating wasn't you weren't supposed to be the girl in a cheating story.

Laylla: They knew. So, everyone knew that he was involved with someone else.

Chelle: Correct.

Laylla: Oh, okay.

Chelle: Now, you know how society is. If a guy cheats, you know, "Hey, good for you, bro." But if a girl cheats, you know, "Hey, you slut, whore." Yes, shaming happens.

Chelle: Burn her at the stake. So, Emily's family basically said, "If you go with him, we're done with you." So, she decides to tell this guy, "Meet me at the covered bridge at such and such day and time, and we're going to run off and get married." Tells her family, "You know, look, I don't give a crap what you say. I'm going to go marry this guy, whatever." So, they say, "If you leave, don't come back." She goes to the bridge. Guess who doesn't show up?

Laylla: No, he didn't show? He like left her there? Oh.

Chelle: No-show Joe, we'll call him.

Laylla: No-show Joe. What a dick.

Chelle: Yeah, no-show. So, as you can imagine, because not only her broken heart, obviously, she was brokenhearted. I mean,

Laylla: Yeah, that's fucking sad.

Chelle: You think you're going to run off and get married, and you're kind of stood up at the freaking bridge.

Laylla: She went against her family. She went out there, followed her heart, and then the fucker stood her up.

Chelle: Right. So, then, guess what? Who wants to go home? Not Emily.

Laylla: I hope she took off to California.

Chelle: Basically, kind of the whole, who wants to go home to the big fat, "I told you so," you know?

Laylla: No, please tell me she ran away, Chelle. Please tell me she ran away to California.

Chelle: Well, she did not run away to California.

Laylla: She ran away to Colorado.

Chelle: Nor did she run away to Colorado.

Laylla: Fuck, she ran away to fucking Florida. That's a bad state. Don't go there.

Chelle: No, what she did was she stayed at the bridge.

Laylla: No, come on, Chelle.

Chelle: And you know how wooden bridges have all that like, what is it called, the beaming on the inside?

Laylla: Yes, yes, I do.

Chelle: Makes it very conducive to hang yourself.

Laylla: No, Chelle. Chelle.

Chelle: She did. She did.

Laylla: No, over a fucking cheating asshole?

Chelle: Yep, because she was too Basically, because she was too embarrassed to go home and be given the big fat, "I told you so."

Laylla: Ouch. Ouch.

Chelle: Ultimately, I don't know if she hung herself more so because of the broken heart or if she hung herself because of the embarrassment and how she felt that she could not face her family.

Laylla: Right. Oh, wow, that's heartbreaking.

Chelle: As you can imagine.

Laylla: Her tormented soul is probably still there, that poor thing.

Chelle: Unfortunately, Emily is vengeful.

Laylla: Oh. She's not like, "Oh, boo hoo, sad me." She's like, "Fuck you, dudes. You're coming down with me."

Chelle: And she also apparently has long fingernails.

Laylla: Well, they do say they continue to grow after you die.

Chelle: So, she's a jilted lover. Anybody would be.

Laylla: Mhm.

Chelle: But she takes it out on passing cars.

Laylla: No.

Chelle: She does. She started slashing cars passing over the bridge, leaving like basically, it's been described by people as they look similar to scars left by Wolverine from X-Men.

Laylla: Like in their car? Like scratches in the car?

Chelle: Correct. And even pedestrians

Laylla: Oh, ooh.

Chelle: Even pedestrians crossing Emily's covered bridge aren't safe either, have had marks on their backs.

Laylla: Oh, she's like a scratching poltergeist of the bridge.

Chelle: She's a bitch scratcher.

Laylla: Now, does she just scratch guys or just indiscriminate, she's just going to scratch everybody?

Chelle: I never found anything that was specific to men only, so I think that she's just pissed at the world.

Laylla: Yeah.

Chelle: Now, these sightings started getting recorded in the '60s, and I'm wondering if that's why they're putting the time frame anywhere from 1849 to 1949 that she died, because the sightings started getting marked in newspapers and such in like the late '60s.

Laylla: Now, is there any obituary? That's a time when there should have been like an obituary or a story done on it, I would think.

Chelle: Now, there's been a problem finding something under the name Emily, but they were find able to find someone under the name of Amelia, and they think that Amelia could potentially be Emily.

Laylla: That would make sense.

Chelle: But again, that was kind of more later towards the the 1949 date. So, I'm not sure where the 1849 stories are coming from. It just seems like that's really more around the time the bridge was built as opposed to the time the girl died.

Laylla: What happened to Amelia?

Chelle: No one knows. They just said they found a gravestone. That was a gravestone in town they were able to find with a similar name.

Laylla: I wonder, given the nature of the story, it's I suppose it's possible that if she had killed herself maybe closer to the beginning of that 100-year span,

Chelle: That there'd be no documentation of that.

Laylla: Right, there might not be any documentation, especially if her family was shitty enough that she'd rather kill herself than face them, then, you know, suicides weren't allowed to be buried on hallowed ground. You know, you had to they would go to I don't know what they did with them, but I know they weren't allowed to be buried at the church, and people were pretty religious at that time. So, it's possible she went to an unmarked grave. It's also possible that the family just didn't want anything mentioned because it's it's shameful. She wanted a a guy who was engaged or with another woman, and she ran away from her family, and then she committed suicide. So, it's possible the family tried to bury it as much as possible.

Chelle: So, you know, there are people who try to debunk it by saying that they they can't find evidence showing anyone died at the bridge by that name. But again, it depends on what part of that 100-year span you're talking about. If it was in, you know, 1949, yeah, you'd find a record. If it was in 1850, you're probably not going to find a record, you know what I'm saying? So,

Laylla: Right, right. I mean, there should be a record even in 1850, but I can see scenarios where there wouldn't be one.

Chelle: I want to read an excerpt to you from someone who had a personal experience here.

Laylla: Okay.

Chelle: Grab your blankie.

Laylla: Oh, boy. Okay, hold on. I got this is my bong, which is which is blankie enough. Go for it.

Chelle: Clutch the bong. "The pitch-black darkness smothered me. The rushing water of Gold Brook 10 feet below me echoed against the wooden walls of the roof of the Gold Brook covered bridge in Stowe, Vermont. It filled my ears so that I could hear nothing but the vicious rush of water over the rock in the reverberating off the old wooden walls. But I could feel, and what I felt was the slightest sensation of something just barely brushing up against my left arm, just barely. I was the only one of my team inside what the locals call Emily's Bridge, probably the most haunted place in Vermont. I had taken over the bridge shift, and someone else that was there prior to me also reported being lightly touched by something." So, there are two people that were there within the last 10 or so years. They actually happen to be ghost hunters, by the way.

Laylla: Wow.

Chelle: That felt that they were touched. But the guy went on to say that he was happily that Emily hadn't become violent.

Laylla: So, she just touched them. She didn't scratch them.

Chelle: A light touch is what they both explained.

Laylla: Wow, creepy. That would be so creepy.

Chelle: And although it is, you know, honestly, folks, true story, it is extremely rare for a ghost to attack people, but this ghost apparently has claws.

Laylla: Why do you always pick the stuff with like claws and shit?

Chelle: You like to pick stuff that hurts people. It's so scary. You're trying to scare me.

Chelle: I don't even know how it works out that way, how I end up with like I get the strangest stuff.

Laylla: I got the creeps when that when you said that one investigator went in by himself. I don't know if I would go in by myself. That sounds really fucking spooky.

Chelle: But then he finished it by saying, he went back in towards the edge of the water on the bridge and again felt a slight sensation of something brushing up against the edge of his coat. He spun around, and through the pinkish-purple hue of his of his screen, he actually saw something. He saw it in the camera, but not with his natural eye. So, he turns around with his natural eye, he's on the bridge alone. When he replays the camera, there are orbs in there. I know you love a good orb story.

Laylla: I do. There's orbs all around him?

Chelle: Yeah, so,

Laylla: Oh, oh, that's great. I I got to find this photo.

Chelle: And then he ends it with, "I looked at my watch, and it was 1:00 a.m." And according and according to legend, Emily Emily died around that time, supposedly, 150 years prior.

Laylla: Oh. Well, they know the time she died, but they can't find her fucking headstone? I don't know.

Chelle: You know, here's the thing. You know, and this is where I think sometimes local legends make stuff up. No, say it's not so. You don't know who it was. You don't know if it was between a 100-year span, but you sure as shit know she died at 1:00 in the morning. Like, what's going on here?

Laylla: I call shenanigans.

Chelle: I have got the best continuation of this in your

Laylla: Oh, good. It's been awesome so far. Tell me more.

Chelle: You're going to love this. So, there was a paranormal group there way back in, I think this was mid '70s. And at that point, it was still called the Gold Brook Bridge, okay? So, they go there with a Ouija board.

Laylla: No. Why do they not listen to you, Chelle? They should they should know, even from the '70s, they should know. Chelle says,

Chelle: Fuck around and find out, man.

Laylla: Fuck around with a Ouija board and find out. You always do. They did, didn't they? Okay, okay, I got a fucking A. What happened?

Chelle: But you know, in the '70s, Ouija boards were making their way back around into the social circles, so I'm not surprised. They actually reached out to a spirit via Ouija board and asked the spirit, "Who were they? Um, and what were they doing there?" And it was the spirit who told them their name was Emily and that it was called Emily's Bridge.

Laylla: Oh, okay.

Chelle: It sounds like the name Emily and Emily's Bridge actually came from a Ouija board. A 1970s group of people with a Ouija board on the bridge. Well, hey, that's pretty I think that's pretty reliable. As far as ghost stuff goes, I'm down with that.

Laylla: I would listen to a Ouija board. Right.

Chelle: But people have reported orbs with with their own visual eye. I'm not talking about cameras. They've noticed blurred spots in the trees surrounding the bridge, like your eye goes blurry for a second.

Laylla: I don't want to go there. I want to take some pictures. We should go, Chelle. I love Vermont. We should go to Vermont in the fall. How pretty would that be? And take orb photos at the pretty bridge. Oh my god, how pretty would that be?

Chelle: They've even seen faint images of a face or a woman's figure. Faint flashes of light in various areas of the bridge have also been reported.

Laylla: Oh, that's cool. That's fantastic.

Chelle: And then some things that were were well experienced with, equipment malfunctions, like a fully charged battery dead within a few minutes.

Laylla: Love those. Now, so what you're telling me here is like the the Emily story is Okay, the Emily story has kind of a not so great lineage. It goes back to a Ouija board in the '70s, which, you know, may or may not be truthful. Probably not. But the legend around it is backed up by everyone's experiences here. These things are happening, and they're happening to lots of people that go there.

Chelle: Right. I mean, they actually literally do call this one of the most haunted places in Vermont.

Laylla: They're all the most haunted places. They're they're all the most haunted.

Chelle: I know, right? But yeah, so so Emily is supposed to be, I guess, the name of what this girl was. And and like I said, they did find a headstone in town that had Emily on it.

Laylla: Amelia or Emily?

Chelle: Emeline, E-m-e-l-i-n-e. And that person's grave was dated 150 years ago. So again, that could be where the time range comes through. But the Ouija board didn't name the bridge um and give out the name until like I said,

Laylla: 1970.

Chelle: Yeah, the the very beginning of the '70s.

Laylla: So, it sounds like it was haunted prior to this, but they didn't know by what or by whom until this Ouija board gave them a name and a story.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: But they knew it was active.

Chelle: Now, you know, could the Ouija board guy have made it up? Who knows. But there are stories that date back about people going over in horse and carriages and the horses refusing to cross the bridge. And as you and I know,

Laylla: Animals know.

Chelle: Yeah, so, you know, if if an animal doesn't want to cross a bridge, I sure as hell ain't going to try to make it.

Laylla: Exactly. If my dog doesn't like a person, I have issues with them. Just imagine if you were crossing a bridge and had like freaking Wolverine scratches on the damn outside of your car when you get to the other side. Like, I'd shit.

Laylla: Let's go. I want that. I want that on my car. Let's go do it.

Chelle: What do you tell Geico?

Laylla: Ghost did it. Yeah. They have a talking They have a talking gecko. They'll understand a ghost. This is good weed, by the way. Just saying.

Chelle: So, I do believe it's haunted because there's been a lot of reports over the years, even before, again, the Ouija board incident in the '70s, you know, that the horse and carriages having issues, people seeing orbs, and the the scrapes, feeling like nails are going over the the roof of your car when you're driving through. Mm. That I all buy into.

Laylla: And the orb photos. Orb photos. I cannot wait to go. I have got to go there.

Chelle: That I all buy into. The story of Emily, I'm not 100% sure, just because that particular part of it cannot be corroborated.

Laylla: Yeah, it's Ouija boards lie. They lie.

Chelle: Yeah, and so, the experiences I believe, the backstory I'm not so sure.

Laylla: Yeah, I like it. It's an interesting backstory. You know, it fits in with a lot of typical local legends. It follows the same kind of pattern. So, more than likely, it's not true. It's probably just something that whatever energy was in the Ouija board made up at the time. But the experiences are there. There's something there.

Chelle: But if you remember one of our original podcasts, I don't even remember which one, but it was somewhere between one and five,

Laylla: Yes.

Chelle: Folks, go back and listen. Let us know. I did a cemetery, and I want to say it was like, I don't know, like in Utica or something in New York. And it was kind of the same thing, you know, what is with a jilted lover hanging themselves and then scraping their body, their ghosty body over cars?

Laylla: Right. Again, this follows like the Lady in White, which this isn't, but like that type of legend, this follows a similar pattern. Any town, especially small towns in America, you can find these types of ghost stories and legends about local places. And a covered bridge is like one of the best spooky places.

Chelle: It totally has that Sleepy Hollow vibe.

Laylla: Exactly. And if it's already one where paranormal things are happening for whatever reason, maybe it's over water, maybe it has some limestone there, since, you know, maybe it's one of those energy places that seems to hold things. And so, there's activity, there's orbs there, so some type of activity, they call of us

Chelle: Why do they have to scrape your car? Why do they have to scrape the car?

Laylla: I don't know, but I love that. I would love to go do an investigation there. This is what I want to go. I want to go. I want to go.

Chelle: Well, I'll have to see how far away Stowe, Vermont is from Salem. It's probably pretty far. We'll have to check that out. Hey, Google, how long will it take to drive to Stowe, Vermont from Salem, Massachusetts?

Google Assistant: By car, the trip from Salem to Stowe is 3 hours and 22 minutes with light traffic.

Laylla: 3 hours and 22 minutes with light traffic.

Chelle: Oh, shit, that's how long it took us to get to Mount Washington. There you go. See, no problem. We can go.

Laylla: Yeah. So, that's how that that would be fun. Let's do it. Okay, we probably won't, but sometime we should.

Chelle: But isn't it just weird, and and this is one thing that I think is kind of interesting, you start looking into a lot of these ghost stories and paranormal stories like we've been doing for the last many months of this, and you're you start to see a lot of the same similar stories with just some of the fine details different and the locations different.

Laylla: Yeah, there's these areas that have paranormal activity, but to explain them, we've kind of fall into the pattern of these these common archetypes that you'll see over and over again. You know, I love it. I love to see the differences and I love to hear the the similarities. It's just it's cool. I like it. I love these stories.

Chelle: As soon as I heard about her scraping the nails over the cars, all I could think about is one of is one of those first couple episodes uh that we did. I believe it was a guy. Same thing was hanging from a tree and was scraping cars.

Laylla: Oh, so scary. I you know, I talk a big game about how fun this would be, but the second

Chelle: All I could think of was Freddy Krueger.

Laylla: Right, the second we hear those scrapes on the car when we're going under the bridge, I'd start screaming.

Chelle: Screaming like little girls. Screaming like little girls.

Laylla: And we better hope like fuck that you're not driving because you have a lead foot and drive like a maniac. And so we would be

Chelle: I had to stop there, man.

Laylla: 0 to 120 in 2 seconds. We'd be gone.

Chelle: You need a NASCAR driver, I'm your girl.

Laylla: That's true. Maybe we do want you to be the driver. You got us. I'll take the orb photos, you be the getaway driver.

Chelle: Right, right. That That was always my lot in life. I am your getaway driver, man.

Laylla: Perfect. That's perfect.

Chelle: I believe there's paranormal activity going on. Like I said, I'm just not sold totally on the backstory. So, that's my story and I'm sticking to it with Emily's Bridge in Stowe, Vermont.

Laylla: I love it. That is a fabulous story, Chelle. All right. So, before we get into my shitty story, I'm going to lighten the mood just a little bit because I'm really high. Can you see my eyes? They're like all glassy.

Chelle: No, I can't see your eyes. That's the problem.

Laylla: Glassy. I know. I know.

Chelle: What eyes? What eyes? All I see is forehead and nose. Your eyes are like little paper slits.

Laylla: And this big ass smile. So, you are going to be so happy. Wait till you see what I got for Munchies Show.

Chelle: Oh, lord. Did you Oh my god. Pretzel Crisps. Dark chocolate covered Pretzel Crisps.

Laylla: It's the dark chocolate Pretzel Crisps.

Chelle: We have not talked about Pretzel Crisps in like a coon's age, okay?

Laylla: No, we haven't. Coon's age. What the fuck is a coon's age?

Chelle: Yeah, that's like such a New York thing. A coon's age.

Laylla: A coon's age. I don't even know what that means. What does that mean?

Chelle: I don't know. How long does a raccoon live?

Laylla: Oh, I don't know. Well, that's a coon's age.

Chelle: Okay, so a long time, right? It's supposed to stand for like a long time.

Laylla: A long time, I guess.

Chelle: Chocolate covered. Oh my god. Did you get those at Target?

Laylla: I know why my cat is here.

Chelle: For chocolate covered Pretzel Crisps. Oh, it sounds like treats.

Laylla: This sounds like the treat bag. It's not the treat bag. Tada!

Chelle: I am so jealous of your chocolate covered Pretzel Crisps.

Laylla: Oh my god. Mm. So good.

Chelle: I'm going to die. I am so jealous.

Laylla: These are amazing.

Chelle: So jealous.

Laylla: Chocolaty, salty, crunchy. Oh, fabulous.

Chelle: High person's dream come true.

Laylla: Oh, yeah. Oh my gosh, yeah. It's all the flavors in one. It's better than Captain Crunch in cold milk.

Chelle: Now, what about if you drizzled caramel over it?

Laylla: Oh, wow. Chelle, marry me. Will you marry me?

Chelle: That's why people keep me around because I have all the ideas.

Laylla: Yeah, you do, girl. That's hot. That's fucking sexy. Yes, I do want caramel on it. Thank you.

Chelle: They sell it in squeezable things and you can squeeze the caramel on the pretzel.

Laylla: Ooh. Caramel's so easy to make, too. But, yeah, this is actually This is good chocolate. I would say they use good chocolate. So, there you go, Pretzel Crisps. Sponsor us, man, because these are so good.

Chelle: I am off to Target tomorrow to find my ass some chocolate covered Pretzel Crisps.

Laylla: Mm-mm-mm-mm-mm. So good.

Chelle: Now, I I'm going to let you keep chewing and I am going to read disclaim your story before you start. So, we do have a uh Laylla's going to give us a a true crime story. We do have trigger warnings. This is definitely sensitive topic. If you are sensitive to sexual assault or violence against children, this might not be the true crime story for you. If you are sensitive, we will not take it personally if you stop listening right now.

Laylla: Go ahead. Dip out. We do not mind. We will not take it personally. All good.

Chelle: So, from this point on, you've been warned. All right, Laylla, give us your true crime.

Laylla: Buckle up. Grab your weed, for sure. Make sure you got your loved ones because we're diving in. Okay, so I'm definitely smoking more pot and I'll probably take some weed breaks through this because this was a hard one to research. I I I was very interesting um but very fucking scary. So, you ready?

Chelle: You know, unfortunately, I I think that there's a misconception. You know, we're not the only podcast out there that talks about true crime. It's It is a hot topic right now, but I I think that there's a misconception that true crime is all, you know, fun and mysterious and and there's a dark side and we're going to kind of talk about that dark side tonight.

Laylla: It's It's all a dark side. I mean, there there is no fun side to this. I No, I wouldn't say there's anything fun here. But, um, all right. So, All right, I'm just going to dive in. I'm just going to dive in.

Chelle: Just start from the beginning.

Laylla: So, I'm talking about a killer that started in the early 1970s. And at this time in America, we didn't have the term serial killer. That hadn't been invented yet. Also, in this same time period, again, the early '70s, five of the most prolific killers in our history were kind of doing their murderous shit all over the United States. And those killers were John Wayne Gacy, Gary Ridgway, who was the Green River Killer, Jeffrey Dahmer, Ted Bundy, and the killer I'm going to talk about this evening, who was called the BTK Killer.

Chelle: Now, a couple of those are familiar to me. A couple of them, I'll be honest, I don't recall the name or the incidents. Mhm. And BTK Killer, I don't I don't recall that one honestly. You know, Ted Bundy I remember, but but I don't remember this one.

Laylla: Now, BTK is a name he gave himself, and I'll get to the point where he does that, but it stands for Bind, Torture, Kill. And that's exactly what he did.

Chelle: Seriously?

Laylla: Seriously.

Chelle: What a whack.

Laylla: Oh, yeah. And oh, yeah. You have no idea. So, we're going to start Again, so this is a time when there's no surveillance cameras. You know, nobody has a cell phone. There's no computers. The the police stations don't have a database that they can access with just a few keystrokes.

Chelle: It's the '70s.

Laylla: It's the '70s. So, a lot of these killers happened at that time because people were traveling, people were out. They had no concept of serial killer, and these killers had nothing really to stop them. No way to be found.

Chelle: Right. They could kill and go to another town, kill, go to another town.

Laylla: Right. And there's no fingerprinting. There's no DNA evidence. You know, there's there's none of that. Files, half the time, paperwork was just crammed in some some guy's drawer in his desk at work.

Chelle: I don't even know if they had faxes back then.

Laylla: No, I don't think they did. Um, I think the Black Dahlia was one of the first times that they used a fax machine to help solve a killing, and I don't remember what year that was. But, I do remember that fact. But, anyway, so I'm going to start with the first killing that the BTK Killer was responsible for. And this happened January 15th, 1974, in Wichita, Kansas. This is hard. Is this Is this where he was from?

Chelle: It is, actually. But, no one knew that at the time.

Laylla: Oh, okay.

Chelle: January 15th, uh Charlie, a young boy named Charlie, Charlie Otero, he's 15, he'd gone to school early that day because he had some tests that he needed to study for. He comes home from school. And his two siblings, uh Carmen and Danny, are yelling to him from inside the house. The first thing he sees is his dog in the backyard, which he thought was unusual. The dog was usually inside the house at this time. And his two two younger siblings are yelling at him to come in the house. They're saying that Mom and Dad are playing a game and that he needs to come in and help them.

Laylla: Very '70s-like.

Chelle: Yes.

Laylla: Okay.

Chelle: As soon as Charlie gets in the back door, he said he could smell the fear and he could tell something was wrong. And he gets into he gets into the room where his parents are, and he sees that their hands have been tied behind their back. They have bags over their head and ligatures around their neck, and he can tell that they're deceased.

Laylla: Oh my god. Imagine that at 15.

Chelle: He immediately gets the younger children out, and they go to a neighbor's and call the police. And while they're waiting for the police, that's when it hits him that he doesn't know where his two younger siblings, 9-year-old Joe Jr. and 11-year-old Josephine, he doesn't know where they are.

Laylla: He didn't He didn't get them out of the house with him?

Chelle: As far as he knew, they weren't in the house, and it's a good thing he didn't go looking for them because

Laylla: And who was yelling his name?

Chelle: It was the other two children, Carmen and Danny. Oh, okay. Okay. There are five children in the Otero family. Uh 15-year-old Charlie, and then Carmen and Danny, and then 11-year-old Josephine and 9-year-old Joe Jr. Okay, gotcha. So, they don't know where the two younger children are. And when the police get there, uh they find the family. And then they find Joe Jr. in his bedroom. He was in bed, and a bag had been put over his head, his hands were tied behind his back, and a ligature of a rope had been put around his neck. And they could tell that the killer had been sitting in the chair opposite the bed and watched him die.

Laylla: Oh my god. Would he hang him?

Chelle: He strangled him with a bag over his head with a cord around his neck and then just laid him in in bed while he suffocated to death.

Laylla: Oh my god.

Chelle: The family knew that 11-year-old Josephine was still unaccounted for, and they didn't see her in the house. And then they realized that the house had a basement. So, they go down into the basement, and according to Oh, no. Oh, I know. Oh, shit. According to the investigator that went down there, he said it was very dark and he couldn't see anything. And he brushed up against something that he thought was like a a heavy bag, like a punching bag hanging from the ceiling. And It was her. when he turned on the light, it was 11-year-old Josephine.

Laylla: Oh my god.

Chelle: She had been hung from a sewer pipe and stripped naked, and there was a puddle of semen at the floor beneath her.

Laylla: What a fucking dirtbag.

Chelle: So, at the time, DNA was not a thing at that time, but one of the agents at the crime scene had the foresight to um to cut up uh a sheet or a pillowcase and use that to collect the DNA evidence on the floor uh beneath beneath Josephine. So, what had happened was, in the killer's own words, he said that he had targeted them and that he didn't plan on Mr. Otero being at home, just Mrs. Otero and the and the younger children. He cut the phone lines, got in through the back door, and he said he was really nervous that day because it was his first time, and the dog kind of scared him. He confronted the family when he went in, and he pulled out a a gun, and he confronted Mr. Otero and told him basically that he wanted to steal the car, that he was hungry, and that food was all he wanted. He told the family to lie down in the living room, and then he realized that the dog was going to be a problem. So, he made Mr. Otero have one of the children put the dog outside. And then he took the entire family back to one of the bedrooms, and he tied them up while holding them at gunpoint. He says then they started complaining about being tied up, and so he kind of loosened their bonds a little bit and tried to make Mr. Otero as comfortable as possible. He said Mr. Otero had a cracked rib from a car accident, and he was trying to keep him comfortable, which is really weird considering what he was about to do. He even put a pillow down underneath Mr. Otero's head. They were trying to tell him that they didn't have much, but he was welcome to take whatever he had. And that's when he realized he wasn't wearing a mask and that they'd already seen his face. And so that he made that decision then that he was going to have to kill all of them. Strangle them, I guess, he says. So, he put a plastic bag over Mr. Otero's head and put some cords around his neck and started tightening them. After he strangled Mr. Otero, he did the same thing to Mrs. Otero. And he said he didn't know how long it was going to take or how hard he had to push.

Laylla: Oh, shit.

Chelle: And the children were still in the room while this is all happening. And Mr. Otero came to and tried to get loose, and the whole family's panicking at this point. So, he finishes strangling Mrs. Otero, and when she passes out, then he strangled little Josephine. And then he put a bag on the little boy's head. He said Mrs. Otero came to, and she was really upset. And so that time he strangled her to death with a cord around her neck. And then he went back over and made sure that Mr. Otero was dead. He says that before Mrs. Otero died, she had asked him to save her son, so he'd taken the bag off of the little boy's head. But, after he killed both Mrs. and Mr. Otero, he took the little boy to the other bedroom and put a bag over his head and then a t-shirt over that and then watched him while he died. Then he went back into the other room where little Josephine had woken up, and he says that's when he took her down to the basement. And he said he cleaned up and took a few things, and then he left.

Laylla: Oh, wow. So, they had no idea who to even look at to go after?

Chelle: They had no clue. The the police originally thought maybe it was a drug deal gone wrong or something, uh but that just didn't fit with the family. They had no idea. No idea where to even start to look. And people had been in and out of the house. One of the police officers that went into the house, I guess, had actually made himself a drink or something and left ice out on the counter. And they said that um because the ice was on the counter, maybe that meant that the killer had just been there or something. But, this was a very daring crime. You know, the killing had taken place in midday. There was a dog there. Uh the family was there. There were there were, you know, multiple people there. It was a very high-risk killing.

Laylla: So, what end? Did they ever find a motive?

Chelle: I will tell you that 31 years later, the DNA collected from that puddle was very important.

Laylla: Seriously? Hey, worked after all those years and B, they actually kept it?

Chelle: They kept it. They kept it.

Laylla: So, that's good, right?

Chelle: It absolutely good. It's really good.

Laylla: So, I take it this isn't it. This isn't the end. He's done this again, I would imagine.

Chelle: Three months later, Katherine Bright, 21, was coming home to her apartment with her brother Kevin.

Laylla: Where?

Chelle: Same city. Okay, okay. They get into the house, and the BTK Killer's there with a gun, and he tells them to cooperate and he'll let them live.

Laylla: Lies.

Chelle: He tells the brother, Kevin, to tie up Katherine, and he does. And then he marches Kevin into the bedroom and ties up his hands. When he starts to slip a bag over Kevin's head, that's when Kevin said he realized that the guy had lied. He wasn't getting out of there alive. And so he fought back. The BTK Killer shot him twice and left him for dead, and then went back to Katherine. But, Kevin woke up at this point and came out, and the BTK Killer, instead of strangling Katherine, resorted to stabbing her multiple times in the abdomen before fleeing.

Laylla: Oh my god.

Chelle: The police came, and they managed to save Kevin, who was never the same.

Laylla: Did he ID him or something?

Chelle: Both of them did give details of of what the killer looked like to the police, but it was pretty vague. And Katherine, unfortunately, died of her wounds shortly after. They did not connect that to the BTK Killer at the time because it was two very different MOs.

Laylla: Well, they were two opposite types of killings, really.

Chelle: Yeah, exactly. Both seemingly random. Now, here's where it gets kind of interesting. In October of 1974, so that same year, a young man confessed to killing the Oteros. He said he and two friends had gotten wicked drunk and had killed them. While the police are investigating this lead, the Wichita newspaper, the Wichita Eagle, got a phone call. An anonymous phone call, and the man on that phone call said that they should go look at an engineering book in the Wichita Public Library.

Laylla: For what?

Chelle: A letter. So, the police went to the Wichita Public Library, and in that engineering book was a letter from the BTK Killer. And he wrote a detailed description of the unsolved Otero killing with enough evidence to prove that he was definitely the killer because he knew

Laylla: So, he was showing off. He was showing off because he thought that someone else would get credit.

Chelle: He was mad that someone else would get credit and said so in the letter. He said he alone had killed the Oteros and that the three were just seeking to gain publicity from his actions. The letter read in part, quote, "I can't stop it, so the monster goes on and hurts me as well as society. It's a big complicated game my friend the monster play, putting victims' number down, follow them, checking up on them, waiting in the dark, waiting, waiting." At the end of the letter, he describes this beast inside of him and says that the beast has already chosen the next victim or victims and that he himself will only know it in the morning when he reads the newspaper, but it's going to be too late for those people by that time. And he says, quote, "Since sex criminals do not change their MO or by nature cannot do so, I will not change mine. The code word for me will be Bind them, torture them, kill them. B T K." You see, he added again.

Laylla: Wow, what a narcissistic piece of shit.

Chelle: Yes, so you've met him. Yes, exactly. Yeah, asshole. Complete asshole.

Laylla: So, so what? So, what? Are you saying that he would open the newspaper and see a name and that was the next person? Like

Chelle: Maybe. He definitely implied that he stalked these people and chose his victims before he killed them.

Laylla: Damn.

Chelle: It was apparently enough for him at that point in 1974, killing those four people in the Otero family and killing Katherine Bright and then sending that letter to the Wichita Eagle, kind of seemed to

Laylla: Quieted his crazy.

Chelle: Yeah, seemed to satisfy those shitty urges, right? For at least a couple years. And then, March of 1977, he struck again. A woman named Shirley Vian, age 26, she was sick at home with her three children.

Chelle: Still in Kansas?

Laylla: Yes, this was in Wichita, Kansas. All of his killings were in Park City and Wichita, Kansas. Home in bed, sick with her three children home, and one of her children answers the door, and he let in the man that was dressed like a detective.

Chelle: The BTK killer.

Laylla: He'd parked his car at a Dillon's grocery store, according to odd stops, on East Lincoln Street. And he had been looking for Shirley Vian, kind of targeting her. He finds her house and knocks on the door, and her son opens it and lets him in. Unfortunately, the BTK killer is not a nice dude, and he tells Shirley that if she cooperates, he won't kill her kids.

Chelle: Wow.

Laylla: Yeah. So, she says okay, and she helps him put some blankets and toys in the bathroom, and he locks the children in the bathroom. One of the doors, I guess, locks, and the other door is tied with some sort of like rope to the door handle and then to like the pipes of the sink, so that it's closed, but I guess there was a gap.

Chelle: Mhm.

Laylla: The killer stayed in the apartment for about 40 minutes, and during that time, the BTK killer raped Vian, and then, still trying to keep her calm, gave her a glass of water and a cigarette. And one of the children, Steve Relford, was only five years old. He's the one who says he let the killer into the house, and he was able to see out through that gap. And he recalls seeing that his mother had been stripped naked, and her hands were tied behind her back, and a bag put over her head, and then the killer tied a rope around her neck.

Chelle: Oh my god.

Laylla: And this little boy says his last vision is of his mother being strangled on the floor, all of her fingers on one hand broken.

Chelle: Oh my god. Oh my god.

Laylla: The killer then turned his attention to the screaming children that were trapped in the bathroom. Fortunately for them, the telephone rang, and the BTK killer got spooked enough that he left. He was afraid that someone would come, so he took off. And it's the only reason that he didn't break his promise to Shirley, because he fully intended to kill those children. The children say that one of the brothers escaped through a window in the bathroom, but the other two kids couldn't fit. They did manage to break the door down, but by the time they did, their mother had died, and and the killer had fled the scene. Then, in December of 1977, Nancy Fox, 25, she was found strangled and bound at her home. And this time, the killer called the police, called 911 the next day and reported the killing himself.

Chelle: Why? Cuz nobody found out?

Laylla: Oh, good guess, Chelle. Very good. Nobody's really sure, but it's thought that maybe because this killing was a little different. I believe Nancy Fox was killed in the evening, and the other killings that had been attributed to him were all during the day.

Chelle: So, this was like where he was veering off the norm?

Laylla: A little bit, yeah. Maybe he was just looking for more attention.

Chelle: Not that not that he shouldn't have stopped, but why did he stop for 2 years? Or 3 years, whatever it was.

Laylla: At the time, they didn't know.

Chelle: I take it you're going to get to that. Okay.

Laylla: Just 1 month later, in January 31st, 1978, the killer reached out to the Wichita Eagle newspaper again.

Chelle: What a narcissist.

Laylla: He wrote a poem. He fancied himself a poet. And this one started, "Shirley locks, Shirley locks, wilt thou be mine?" The mail clerk thought it was, you know, it's right before Valentine's, 2 weeks before Valentine's Day. The mail clerk thought it was a Valentine and forwarded the letter to the classifieds department. They didn't know that it was referring to Shirley Vian. This killing had not yet been connected to the BTK killer, and so he was trying to make sure that they knew.

Chelle: That guy got fired that day from the newspaper, I bet.

Laylla: Right? And then, February 10th, 1978, this time, the threat from the BTK killer is made public because he writes another letter, and he wrote it to the Wichita, a Wichita TV station, and he said, "How many people do I have to kill before I get my name in the paper or some national attention?" Then, he started listing a whole bunch of suggested names that he should be called, like the BTK Strangler, the Wichita Hangman, or the Asphyxiator.

Chelle: Oh my god.

Laylla: So, this again was probably enough for him for a little while. It kind of satisfied him, and he didn't kill again until April 28th, 1979. Or actually, April 28th, 1979, someone narrowly missed becoming his next victim.

Chelle: Oh.

Laylla: He chose and stalked a 63-year-old woman named Anna Williams, and he lay in wait for her in her house.

Chelle: This is odd because weren't all the women really kind of younger? And now, he's choosing an older one.

Laylla: They were. They were 30s, 20s, and now a 63-year-old woman. I they I don't know if he really had a pattern or a type. He would just find someone, stalk them, and then try to kill them, I guess.

Chelle: Just random.

Laylla: So, he's in Anna Williams' house waiting for her, but she was held up with friends and didn't get home until way later than she expected to. So, the killer got bored, stole a few of her things, including a scarf, and left. Less than 2 months later, Anna Williams learned that she narrowly escaped death because she got a fucking letter from the BTK killer, along with her scarf, and a poem titled, "Oh, Anna, Why Didn't You Appear?" And in the letter, it says, "Be glad you weren't here, because I was." And it was from the fucking BTK killer.

Chelle: Oh my god.

Laylla: Can you fucking imagine?

Chelle: Oh my god. I wouldn't go home.

Laylla: Right? I would move immediately. Immediately move. So, she lived, thankfully, but his next victim was not so lucky. Marine Hedge, 53, was found in May 1985. The BTK killer had strangled her with her own pantyhose.

Chelle: Oh.

Laylla: It was later found out that he took her body to a church, Christ Lutheran, and he posed her in multiple bondage positions and took photographs of her dead body.

Chelle: That sounds familiar to me. I feel like I've heard that story before.

Laylla: And he dumped her body in a ditch. So, that's quite a long time. Like, she was 1979 to 1985, that's 6 years.

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: And his next victim was over a year later, September 1986, Vicky Wegerle, 28. The BTK killer pretended to be a repairman. Please, people, check credentials. Just because they're wearing a vest does not mean that they're an official. Make sure they say they're from the gas company, ask to see their ID. They should have one, and they should have no problem giving it to you. So, he said he was a telephone repairman and asked to come inside. As soon as she let him in, he pulled a gun on her and then told her what he was going to do. He tied her up and strangled her with her own pantyhose. While she was unconscious, he arranged her body and her clothes again in lots of different bondage positions and took pictures. And when she came to, he strangled her again and killed her. So, Wegerle reportedly had a 2-year-old child in the home at the time.

Chelle: Oh, jeez.

Laylla: Thankfully, he did nothing to the little boy.

Chelle: Well, that's good. Jesus.

Laylla: When Bill Wegerle, Vicky's husband, came home, he found the 2-year-old sitting alone at the table and his wife dead in the bedroom.

Chelle: Oh my god.

Laylla: So, of course, unfortunately, because it's usually the right choice, he was a he was a suspect for a while before they connected it to the BTK killer. So, his final victim was Dolores Davis, 62, and she was murdered in her home, January 19th, 1991. This one was kind of messy. He threw like a brick or a a cement block or something through her window, and then when she came running out the door, he he kind of overpowered her and forced his way in.

Chelle: So, he seems to be getting more brazen as the years go on.

Laylla: Yes. And and this victim, he put in the fucking trunk of his car and carried her around while he ran errands.

Chelle: Oh my god.

Laylla: Then, he left her body under a bridge, and it wasn't found until weeks later by a kid walking his dog.

Chelle: Now, did he like have a job or anything? Like, did anybody know he was like a little off?

Laylla: Yes and no. So, after that 1991 killing, he stopped for 25 years.

Chelle: Well, that's good, right? What what the hell brought him back? Did he finally get caught? Is that the DNA evidence thing?

Laylla: He didn't get caught. In 2004, January 2004, the Wichita Eagle run like a 30th anniversary piece about the BTK killer.

Chelle: Oh, yeah, cuz that's good news, assholes.

Laylla: They interviewed some school kids, I guess, and none of them had heard of the BTK killer. Nobody knew who he was. And so, they talked about how people had been terrified in the '70s. I mean, his name struck fear into everyone's heart in Kansas because people were terrified when he was going to strike next, but now, he'd kind of faded out of memory.

Chelle: Got you.

Laylla: And then, later in 2004, America's Most Wanted did a show on the Otero family. And Charlie Otero, remember the little boy who he and his siblings found them?

Chelle: Mhm.

Laylla: His life had gone to hell afterwards. He'd gone from being a great student to being a shitty student. Everything sucked.

Chelle: Oh, that poor child.

Laylla: He was angry, he was hurt, and he turned into an angry, hurt adult. So, he was in jail when he saw this America's Most Wanted piece on his own family, and he had kind of tried to avoid it for years, but he reached out to America's Most Wanted and and contacted the show, and and he started to appear on TV and newspaper articles once he got out. And it's thought that those two things, the Wichita Eagle piece where he's forgotten and Charlie Otero going more public, brought him back out.

Chelle: Oh.

Laylla: The killer got really upset that Charlie was talking, and he contacted the police with a letter and asked them to stop. So, now, he enters into kind of a weird cat-and-mouse letter game with the police.

Chelle: He asks them to stop?

Laylla: Yeah, to stop talking about it, I guess, or.

Chelle: Okay, could you stop killing people?

Laylla: Right? So, March 19th, 2004, the BTK killer announces his return by sending a letter to the Wichita Eagle from Bill Thomas Killman. And in it is included a copy of Vicky Wegerle's driver's license, which had been missing from the scene of her murder.

Chelle: Oh, shit.

Laylla: Photographs of her body.

Chelle: Uh.

Laylla: And the BTK's distinctive signature, which is a I don't know what that means.

Chelle: Maybe he signed his name a certain way.

Laylla: Oh, yeah. Yeah, said BTK, bind them, torture them, kill them.

Chelle: Whatever his deal was.

Laylla: Right. So, they know for a fact it's from the killer. He has her stuff and pictures.

Chelle: So, basically, he is just This is really probably not all, obviously, he's got other sick, twisted things going on, but a lot of this is really It seems very attention-seeking.

Laylla: It very much is. It gets worse. He starts to send like puzzles. This one's mailed to that same TV station that he had contacted before. It's got a fake ID for himself, some sort of manuscript for a book about his biography, the BTK biography, find the word type puzzle, and it's got prowl and fantasies. Interestingly, later, like much later, some internet sleuths are kind of like going over this whole letter, and they discover on there the last name of the killer, like his real last name, and the numbers of his address were hidden in that puzzle.

Chelle: So, he was almost trying to out himself. Is that what you're saying?

Laylla: No, he thought he was smarter than the police.

Chelle: Don't they all?

Laylla: He thought he was playing an elaborate spy game, elaborate some sort of cat-and-mouse game with the police, and that and that they were in this type of back-and-forth of mastermind criminal and and the detectives, you know? So, then, February 2nd, the TV station, KAKE, same one he's contacted before, gets a postcard from the BTK killer. It's the second one they'd got that week, and both postcards pointed to a a location. He started leaving cereal boxes around town. This one was on a a rural road in Sedgwick County up against a sign. It was a cereal box, and on the front of it, the letters BTK were printed. And inside this box was a was a Barbie doll that had its clothes taken off, and it was hung from a pipe.

Chelle: What the holy hell?

Laylla: So, he was trying, you know, call back to Josephine's killing.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: And and he left multiple cereal boxes. Maybe the term serial killer now in the 2000s is a thing, so maybe they think this might be a joke, haha, serial killer, these cereal boxes. And he's also thanking the the TV station for their quick response and for their efforts in getting his his name out. He There's one postcard, the return name is S. Killett, and it has the return address 803 North Edgemoor, which is the same address the Otero family lived at.

Chelle: Mhm.

Laylla: And he numbers each each letter that he sends, and this one's number seven of eight, I guess. And they've sent all of them to they send all of them to the FBI for analysis, but they're not finding anything. So, one of the letters written to the police department, this one, I don't know, one of I guess one of the cereal boxes was found in the back of a truck or something, and there was a letter, and in it, he asked the police department if his writings could be traced back to him if he used a floppy disk.

Chelle: Like they'd tell the truth.

Laylla: Smart, right? So, they post an ad in the Wichita Eagle, a big full-page ad, and say, of course not, we're not going to we can't trace you through a floppy disk, totally safe to use. So, on February 16th, the BTK killer sends into the TV station a floppy disk with a letter and some information to the police. Now, by 2005, can I just say technology has advanced a lot since the '70s. Is this guy dumb?

Laylla: Well, he's been killing since the '70s, so he's probably our parents' age, which means he doesn't know technology very well. Thankfully. Thankfully. So, what happened is, of course, they could trace him. This idiot had used a floppy disk that he had erased from his work. So, in the metadata, the words Christ Lutheran Church and Dennis come up.

Chelle: Are you telling me that this guy was a part of a church?

Laylla: So, they did a simple Google search, and the name Dennis Rader came up as the church's president. Christ Lutheran Church, the president is one Dennis Rader.

Chelle: Oh my god, literally.

Laylla: This is kind of circumstantial, but they're pretty sure they've got their guy. So, what they do, his daughter was in college.

Chelle: Wait, he has kids?

Laylla: He has two kids and a wife.

Chelle: He has a daughter, and he killed kids. So, who's killing this guy real quick?

Laylla: So, his daughter is in college. So, the police get a warrant, and they they get a Pap smear from her last checkup, and they check it for DNA.

Chelle: Oh, shit.

Laylla: Then, they match that DNA to the 31-year-old swatches of semen.

Chelle: Oh my god. Oh, yeah.

Laylla: From underneath poor little Josephine's body. That's not the last time he left DNA evidence, but it was what they had, though. They had kept it, though.

Chelle: They had kept it.

Laylla: They had kept it, and they some of it worked, and they were able to get match DNA. And so, they knew Dennis Rader was the BTK killer.

Chelle: Oh my god.

Laylla: Married, father of two, president of the church, a Boy Scout troop leader, and an Air Force veteran.

Chelle: What the actual fuck happened to this guy? How do you go from all of those things to this thing? Like, I I got no words.

Laylla: There's nothing, Chelle. In most serial killers, now, serial killers and killers in general tend to follow a lot of patterns. They have a shitty childhood, they've been abused, there's sexual abuse, there's torturing animals. Other than torturing animals, he had a perfectly normal childhood. Totally normal.

Chelle: Did they ever figure out where this is all coming from in his head?

Laylla: Oh, yeah, he'll tell you.

Chelle: So, I'll tell you.

Laylla: Dennis Rader was born March 9th, 1945, in Pittsburg, Kansas, United States of America. He had a totally normal childhood, perfectly normal family, no abuse, no nothing. But he says he knew at a young age that he wanted to hurt people. One of his first sexual gratification memories where he knew he was different was he saw his grandmother tie up a chicken to make for dinner. She tied the legs of this chicken and then chopped its head off, and when all the other kids ran screaming, he got a fucking hard-on. And he said that's when he knew he was a little different than other kids.

Chelle: Yeah, good observation, very accurate.

Laylla: Yeah, and also, you know, kids played cowboys and Indians back then, and when he would get tied up by the other little boys, he said, quote, "He found the experience of being utterly helpless erotic."

Chelle: Oh my god.

Laylla: He says he never looked at porn, but he did keep what he called slick ads. He had code words for all sorts of things, and he would take index cards, and he cut out pictures of women and put them on these index cards and draw like nooses and gags and other sick shit on them. And he'd carry them around and look at them and get off to them.

Chelle: Wow.

Laylla: One of the things that he does have in common in his childhood with other killers is that he did torture animals, and he got off on it. He he hung a dog, and he hung a a pet dog and a pet cat. He liked hanging. So, he called his dick Sparky.

Chelle: Well, if that isn't a very expressive statement, I don't know what is. No wonder he had issues.

Laylla: And he called getting turned on by bondage and torture Sparky big time. And to him, an orgasm was the big G. I'm not sure what. So, the reason why he said he did this is he said he had a demon inside of him, and the demon would make him do things. He also said that he had some sort of factor X, this mysterious component that made him want to kill. And he he thought he had some sort of uh he thought he was special. He had some sort of aberration. So, he used this whole code. He thought he was some sort of great spy. Partly because of this elaborate fantasy that he had, that's how he was able to keep his serial killer persona separate from his I'm a family man, president of the church, Boy Scout troop leader, have a daughter and a son, totally normal dude act. It was because he uh he compartmentalized it. He had this fantasy life, and then he had this other life.

Chelle: They were totally opposite.

Laylla: Totally opposite. Oh, one of the things that he really liked, and you should look into this for a future episode. Have Have you ever heard of H. H. Holmes and the Murder Castle?

Chelle: No. Let me write that down.

Laylla: Yeah, H. H. Holmes is is considered to be America's first serial killer, even though that term wasn't applied at the time. He murdered somewhere between 20 and 200 people. He built a hotel specifically to kill people in Chicago.

Chelle: Oh my god.

Laylla: And Rader was super impressed with H. H. Holmes, and he loved the hotel, and he fantasized about building his own murder castle. And he wanted at the bottom of it, he called it the DP DTPG room, Death to Pretty Girls. Sick asshole. But he loved women's lingerie, and he did break into houses as a teenager and stole women's lingerie and would dress up in them, and would what he liked to do is dress up in this lingerie and then tie himself up and pretend to be one of his victims. To the point where that's how he was able to maintain so many years between victims is he would take these trinkets and these pictures that he had taken, and he would dress himself up in their stuff and then tie himself up like the way I'll put a link to some of the pictures in the show notes. It's really creepy.

Chelle: Wow. What What? So, Who These guys drank the Kool-Aid or something.

Laylla: He would hide all these different trinkets in different places he called hidey holes all around the city, and he he doesn't even remember which ones he has. But he would dress himself up, like he'd wear a woman's face mask and women's clothing, and he'd tie himself up and take pictures of himself, and then he'd masturbate to those pictures. And he swears that his sex life with with his wife was totally normal, and that he was completely faithful to her.

Chelle: Where is the wife in all of this? Did anybody talk to this chick?

Laylla: Yes, she moved out as soon as she found out. She left. Nobody knew.

Chelle: So, she had no idea.

Laylla: No, nobody knew. Nobody knew. He is one where he truly kept everything a secret. And when he'd go to on business trips or out with the Boy Scouts, he would try to like seclude himself. He sometimes he would call them motel parties, and he would put himself into these women's lingerie, tie himself up, self-asphyxiate with bags, and then masturbate. And he said he preferred to suffocate a partner, but he didn't want to involve his wife in it, so he just did it to himself.

Chelle: And other people.

Laylla: Yeah, so he would kind of relive these things by looking at the photographs of of them and himself and using their clothing. These photos are so sick. He says he almost got caught one time because on a Boy Scout camping trip, he made up an excuse to leave for a little while and went out in the woods to hang himself from a tree wearing lingerie. And he was gone so long they like went looking for him, I guess, and he almost got caught.

Chelle: Oh, wow.

Laylla: Yeah, but his daughter, she says on a 20/20 interview in 2019, she swears they had no idea. This I feel so badly for her and for her family. They had no clue that her dad was a serial killer. During the trial for him, he talked about these killings. He described them in detail. You can you can listen to them, and there's a book. My research, there was a book called Confession of a Serial Killer: The Untold Story of Dennis Rader, the BTK Killer. It's by Dr. Katherine Ramsland. And it's it's she's not a ghostwriter or anything. She pretty much just lets him talk, and he does. And she says she knows some of it's probably not true because he does have an overinflated sense of himself, but he'll he'll tell you all about it, why he did it, what he did. It's it's gross. It's sick. But he's in jail.

Chelle: Is he still alive?

Laylla: He's still alive.

Chelle: Why?

Laylla: Because the murders were committed before the serial before the death penalty was instituted.

Chelle: So, our tax dollars are paying to keep this guy alive, correct?

Laylla: Yes, he's serving 10 consecutive life terms in prison for a minimum of 175 years without the possibility of parole. Oh, and I heard a funny story. I don't know if this is true or not. I saw it in a comment, I think, of a YouTube video, so take that for what it's worth. But it's a funny story nonetheless. So, someone apparently knows someone who is a who works at the jail where Dennis Rader is imprisoned. And apparently, uh Dennis was looking out a window, and some gardener flipped him off. And he got mad, and so he filed a complaint, you know?

Chelle: Oh, poor you.

Laylla: And so they got on the loudspeaker of the jail, and they're like, "Uh whoever flipped off Dennis Rader, please don't do that again. He really doesn't like it." Like over the loudspeaker to the general population of the jail. How many middle fingers do you think that motherfucker got after that?

Chelle: I, you know, I'm surprised with with what I've learned over the years about the the jail systems in America. I'm surprised he's still alive, to be completely honest. I'm surprised that he somebody hasn't got him, being honest.

Laylla: Considering he did kill two little kids, and that's usually a death sentence in jail.

Chelle: So, I'm actually surprised that he's still around. So, he was just he just, to the bitter end, was proud of himself then. What a piece of crap.

Laylla: Absolute piece of shit. Just piece of shit.

Chelle: You know, on the bright side, he was caught.

Laylla: Yeah, he's caught. He's serving his time, and he'll never get out.

Chelle: I was going to say 175 years is a long time. Good luck, buddy. Hope you make it.

Laylla: And he was caught because he's a dumb fuck. I mean, I'm glad he's a dumb fuck.

Chelle: Narcissist.

Laylla: He's a narcissistic asshole. And I'm really glad. I'm really glad, actually, that he used the floppy disk.

Chelle: I just, you know, I just get baffled by like legit dual personality bullshit. It baffles me like and the fact that the wife had no idea. The church had no idea. The Boy Scouts had no idea. His his government job had no idea. Like how?

Laylla: The photographs they found in his little treasure chest included pictures of dead women posed in fucking bondage positions in the church, inside the church.

Chelle: Now, I got a lot of problems personally with the church, but that's taking it a little far. And and I hope that that church got raised to the ground after that.

Laylla: I would not want to celebrate there. I definitely would not want to celebrate there.

Chelle: Lord, like imagine being in that congregation and finding this out. Like, so that's like some legit horror to these people. These are some God-fearing people down there, and they their world was probably rocked just knowing that that man was a part of their congregation. Like how fucked up.

Laylla: He was the president. He wasn't just a member of the congregation. He was the president of the church.

Chelle: I don't know what that means, to be honest. I'm not sure.

Laylla: I don't either. I don't either, but it sounds important. President sounds Sounds more more important than regular congregant. Right, right. And the Boy Scout leader.

Chelle: And imagine all those parents, think, you know, he was their kids' Boy Scout leader. Imagine the terror and and just the terror.

Laylla: Oh, I cannot imagine. His poor wife, his poor kids. She divorced him that same year, which good on her, but damn. That's hard. How do you That's got to require a lot of therapy. I hope she's gotten it. I hope they I wish them peace.

Chelle: And unfortunately, they have to live with the association because, you know, unless they've literally changed their names, they got to live with that association. So, he didn't he didn't only murder all of those people and and change the lives of the people who were able to get away, throw his down the toilet, but he also dragged his wife and kid with him, and that is just selfishness in its purest form.

Laylla: Yeah. Yeah. Fucker. What a fucker. So, there's my story. I'm going to eat more chocolate and pretzels and smoke more really good pot.

Chelle: I just got to say, for the record, I'm totally This is an East Coast win because your story was just a downer Debbie. Not that Not that Emily's Bridge was a light and and lovey story, but, you know, good ghost story.

Laylla: I I agree. I'm going to go with you. Your story definitely wins. I want to go there. This is a That was a fun ghost story. I'm spooked. I'm I'm chilled. I'm titillated. I want to have scratches on my car. And the BTK killer is just a fucking downer, so he's a loser. Total loser. I'll take that loss happily.

Chelle: Super douche. Yep, super douche.

Laylla: The douche loses.

Chelle: So, we're glad that everybody could join us today for our great stories, our great witchy stuff, and our fab weed.

Laylla: Fab weed. Thank you for joining us for episode 31. Join us next week.

Chelle: Oh my god. 31.

Laylla: I know. It's so crazy. So crazy. So, join us next week on Wednesday at 4:20 a.m. for episode 32 of The Stoned Witches Hour, where we smoke even better weed, where we talk more witchy things, current happenings, and of course, the spookiest, the scariest, and the most spine-tingling stories on the East or the West Coast.

Chelle: And we promise you that next episode, no narcissists, unless they're of a ghostly apparition type nature.

Laylla: I agree. No fucking narcissists. Gosh, they suck. And you know what, friend? We're gearing up for Halloween.

Chelle: Woo-hoo! Spooky season is coming. I see all the stuff in the stores. I'm freaking thrilled. I can't wait for all of our episodes. Spirit Halloween is open. Spirit Halloween is open, and that is the beginning.

Laylla: You have access to all those hometown stores, and you still like Spirit?

Chelle: I do.

Laylla: Okay, who doesn't? It's fun.

Chelle: Who doesn't? That's the costume place. Of all the stores around here are for like Halloween costumes, Spirit is always going to be the go-to for costumes. Shout-out to Spirit. Send me a gift card because I plan on blowing a lot of money there in the next couple weeks.

Laylla: And and it's kind of like the groundhog of Halloween. When the Spirit stores start popping up, you know it's only six more weeks till October or something. You were so so were there. So, buy more things. Get all basic bitch with your pumpkin spice because sweater season and Uggs Okay, maybe not here, but for the rest of you, it's coming. It's coming.

Chelle: And the witches are coming to Salem.

Laylla: These witches are out, though. So, stay high, stay happy.

Chelle: Peace.

Laylla: Laters. Oh, good, we were recording. I had a momentary I had like a fear for a second. I'm like, "Holy fuck, are we recording?"

Chelle: I told you to remember.

Laylla: I did. I did. Yay, past me. I'm going to high-five stone past me. Yeah, we're good.
