Laylla: It's 4:20 a.m. Hi, and welcome to episode 33 of The Stoned Witches Hour with Chelle and Laylla. We are two besties on opposite coasts of the USA who like to smoke copious amounts of fabulous weed and try to see who can creep each other out as we tell true-ish stories of paranormal events, ghoulish crimes, and things that go bump in the night. On the West Coast with the best weed and the spookiest stories, I'm Laylla.

Chelle: Yeah, right. You're so full of it. I have the best stories. I am generally higher, I think, and I am on the East Coast, which is the best coast, the ghosty coast. That's what I'm going to start calling the East Coast. It's the ghosty coast with Chelle.

Laylla: Ghosty coast. Oh, I like that.

Chelle: I'm Chelle on the ghosty coast.

Laylla: Oh, okay. I'll I'll give you that one. Not the best weed, but the ghosty coast, sure. For sure.

Chelle: The most expensive weed, how about that?

Laylla: Oh, yeah. Weed prices right now, still, man. I am still smoking my own shit.

Chelle: You know, it's really weird because here in Massachusetts, we're like one of the top three states in the country right now for like extreme drought conditions.

Laylla: Mhm.

Chelle: But my neighbor has these plants that are inching their way towards eight to nine feet tall. And, you know, he's out there with his hose every day, so they're getting perfectly hydrated.

Laylla: Nice.

Chelle: Just not naturally because of our drought conditions here. But these suckers are like, they're taller than like a first floor of a house.

Laylla: Yeah, outdoor weed can get get huge. Can you smell it when you go out?

Chelle: Sometimes, it depends on which way the wind's blowing. But he's been trimming, and you just see these big huge buds like popping over our fence.

Laylla: Oh, nice. Oh, how lucky. Maybe he's a nice neighbor and he'll share.

Chelle: He is a nice neighbor.

Laylla: Oh, how good. Well, harvest season is upon us. The second harvest, the fall equinox, Mabon is coming up pretty soon, so outdoor growers are going to be chopping down those big old bud trees.

Chelle: Tis the season, and boy, let me tell you, you know, as as I'm sure folks are aware, you're going to be headed this way soon for a awesome Halloween visit. You better be bringing some of your stuff.

Laylla: I cannot wait for you to smoke on some of my weed. I will be bringing you a charcuterie board of weed, a little smorgasbord of things for you to try, all my favorite different little cultivars that I have grown, and just for you, Chelle, in a cutie little box for you.

Chelle: Now, once you start harvesting, let's for all of our Instagram followers out there, Laylla's going to be supplying us with some very beautiful photographs of her weed.

Laylla: Yeah.

Chelle: And we will be sharing them with you all so that you can all be just as jealous and sad as I am.

Laylla: Aw, don't be sad. Just wish that we lived closer so that you could come help me trim. I hate trimming. It is the worst.

Chelle: I'd trim all day. I'd trim all day. Just buy me good curved scissors and I'd sit there and trim all day.

Laylla: Oh, I know, and I've got your I've got beautiful scissors out here with your name on them. It says Chelle right on the handle, and they're curved, and they're gorgeous, just waiting for you. Cuz I I mean, once my garden gets rolling, I harvest every four to six weeks, and, you know, not a lot of plants at a time, but enough that it gets boring. I don't like it. It's not my favorite.

Chelle: I laugh because, you know, you talk about it it's the we're approaching the second harvest and people are going to be harvesting their weed. Every two months is harvest season for you.

Laylla: This is outdoor harvest season. We're talking about outdoor season. So indoor, you know, we have that indoor sun thing going on. We manipulate our seasons, but you can't deny the outdoor the that harvest sun. So August, September, people are usually harvesting their outdoor weed.

Chelle: Here's something I don't understand, and you can explain this to me and the people.

Laylla: Okay.

Chelle: So, outdoor, the sun, it's yellow, it's orange, it's whatever color. And when people grow indoors, how come the lights are always purple? I don't get it because purple is definitely not emulating sunlight.

Laylla: You wouldn't think, but a lot of people are using LED lights indoors, and that's especially where you'll get a lot of the that purple color, and it comes from the different wavelengths. If you look at the bottom of the board, you'll often see blue, red, and white diodes, little teeny tiny light bulbs, LED light bulbs underneath there, and they'll give off Like, the newer lights, I don't know if you've seen mine, but if you look at my garden, you can see that light doesn't look pink, right?

Chelle: No, it looks like a white light.

Laylla: But if I turn on my my other lights that I have for my my baby tent, those do look pink. And those have, oh, I guess you can't see it, but they have the teeny-teeny-tiny little light bulbs.

Chelle: Oh, okay. I can kind of see it, yeah.

Laylla: And when you turn them on, they have uh three different colors. Like I said, the red, the blue, and the white.

Chelle: So basically, combined, it gives that pinkish-purply glow.

Laylla: It does. And that's, you know, it it emits the the right wavelengths for your for your plants. And they'll come in different strengths and different intensities depending on if you're getting a light that's meant for the growing stage or for a light that's meant for the flowering stage, because people will use different lights for those times.

Chelle: That's a funny thing about driving around at nighttime here. It's like every four or five houses, you'll see all of a sudden this purplish-pink light glowing from someone's bedroom window. It's like, 'Yeah, I know what you're doing, buddy.'

Laylla: We do try to stay a little on the down-low, so be- we did black out our garage windows. But before we blacked them out, if you're driving down the street at night, you would see that pinkish-purplish glow shining out from our garage, and anybody that grows knows.

Chelle: Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, it it's just funny the amount of people because, you know, there's this weird thing in Massachusetts. I I don't think people like curtains here.

Laylla: Mhm.

Chelle: I think we're anti-curtain here. So at nighttime, you're just seeing all these like, especially if it's like a two-story house, you'll see like one of the second-story windows glowing, and

Laylla: Nice. I love a legal state.

Chelle: They're all just growing.

Laylla: Got to grow. Everybody should grow. Everybody should be growing their own. It's relatively easy. You just got to get the good light, make sure you got the space, and grow your own because it's fabulous, it's easy, and it's the best way to keep prices down and to keep, you know, big business from fucking everything up.

Chelle: If George Washington can do it, you can do it, too.

Laylla: There you go. There you go. That's right. Mr. Old Wooden Teeth Cherry Chopping Man himself.

Chelle: Pipe Smoking George.

Laylla: Right? Right? That freaking Constitution's written on hemp paper, so.

Chelle: Seriously. So, I wanted to tell you this like interesting thing. I, uh, as you are aware, we're doing some witchy stuff a little more here, and

Laylla: Yeah.

Chelle: I have recently, you know, I had talked about not too long ago doing these spell jars.

Laylla: Mhm.

Chelle: Kind of dig spell jars. I love mixing things. I'm the mixer of the group. I have gotten also into, because, you know, once you get into one thing, it snowballs into other things, different colored salts.

Laylla: Oh, interesting.

Chelle: With different intentions. So, you know how you get your traditional sea salt and it's white, like that crystalline white-looking sea salt?

Laylla: Yeah.

Chelle: So, I started making black salt, and I've also made red salt. I need to work on some ingredients because I am also going to do a blue and a green and potentially a yellow salt because I want quarter salt is kind of what I'm going to go for. But yeah, making intentioned salt, different colored salts.

Laylla: Now, for for me, salt I usually use as a as a boundary, as a protection, as a cleansing, you know, um When I was a kid, I used to crawl out crawl out the window onto the roof of our like extended porch, and I would do rituals in the moonlight there until I discovered that the salt circles I was drawing had baked into the tar of the roof, and you could see them clear as day.

Chelle: [Laughter]

Laylla: I was like, 'Oh, shit. I really hope nobody looks out that window at the roof.' But anyway, so I use them a lot for cleansing, banishing, protecting, that type of thing. What would you use like a colored salt for, though?

Chelle: Well, let me give you an example. You could use a red salt for things like, um, we talked a couple episodes ago about doing love spells. You could enhance things of that nature with a red salt. If, you know, maybe you're trying to do some banishing, maybe you want to use more of a black salt to kind of add in additional intention above and beyond your traditional white salt. You might want a green salt to use with and enhance either a money ritual or a money spell. You know, if I was going to do a whole ritual totally focused on prosperity, I could make that ritual circle with green salt. If if my whole ritual's intention is going to be something prosperity-driven, green salt would be perfect if I'm using my prosperity green salt. You you see what I'm saying?

Laylla: The salt would help provide like a grounding, protective element to that type of ritual.

Chelle: Right. And then kind of enhance it with the things that you're adding to the salt. Basically, just an enhancer. And I like doing pretty weird things that are a little different than the norm. So, I was thinking about it because, you know, I was finding some black salt, um, at some stores, and I thought, 'Black salt,' and then I looked it up online, and, you know, people will use various things to make black salt, such as, like, you know how I do the loose incense? They'll take the ashes from the loose incense and mix that with sea salt to make black salt.

Laylla: Oh, interesting. Okay.

Chelle: You're really just enhancing the intentions of the salt with different specific enhancements, you know what I'm saying? Um, whether you want that to be a banishing or a protecting or a attracting desire, attracting prosperity, um, attracting emotional wellness, whatever it may be, I just thought, 'What the hell, colored salts, let's do something fun.'

Laylla: That sounds really cool. I love that. I love taking something that, you know, you traditionally use in one way and kind of enhancing it and beautifying it and and using it in a slightly different way. That's pretty cool.

Chelle: I mean, what's worst-case scenario? It's still salt-based, and you're still using all your little magically stuff with all your little magically intentions mixing it with the salt. How bad can it be?

Laylla: Yeah, I like it. Perfect. Especially for this time of year. Who doesn't want a little salt, especially with, you know, the veil of the world being a little bit thinner as our harvest counts down to Samhain, you know?

Chelle: Yeah. And, you know, in our last episode, we were kind of laughing and joking about it, but I mentioned that you see a lot of shadowy figures in in my neck of the woods, just out of your peripheral vision, day-to-day, regular Tuesday-type shit. With that veil getting a little thinner, when you live in an area that is extremely active, such as I do, you know, a little extra oomph helps this time of year.

Laylla: It doesn't hurt at all.

Chelle: And it's not necessarily that my my house is haunted or anything of that nature. It's just my city's haunted.

Laylla: [Laughter]

Chelle: But, you know, maybe if I want to do some say emotional wellness-type stuff, which I sometimes do leading up to Samhain each year, I might want to use like more of a blue salt doing some stuff. But, yeah, now is the time to be extra cautious about that veil dropping and and and the ghosties crossing over because if they're ever crossing over, they're crossing over right here, right now.

Laylla: I could see a protection amulet or a protection jar having a a pinch of each quarter-colored salt and some white and black salt to, you know, represent spirit, and that would be an amazing protection amulet with all the, you know, the power of salt right there and the different intentions you've put into it. I think that would be a great, easy way to carry around an amulet.

Chelle: Right. Right. And, you know, also, it kind of just feeds into my whole, 'I like mixing shit together to to make different intention potions.' I love that.

Laylla: I'm a potion maker. I love it. I just love potions.

Chelle: And I was even thinking, you know, kind of circling back to my spell jar thing, I had even thought about, uh, maybe doing a couple intention spell jars with different layers of different colored salts. Not necessarily like a like a chakra-type thing, but more just a spell jar but with different salts combined for different intentions and have them layered up and multi-colored.

Laylla: Oh, I'd like that. As a visual person, I I love that component to spells and to ritual. It's all well and good to do it in your head and to just see it, but how much more fun is it to actually physically do something and see it there, and it it just makes it that much easier to kind of get in the mood and to kind of get into that magical groove.

Chelle: And then once you're done creating that thing, not only have you created it, but then after, you actually physically have it there to look at.

Laylla: Yeah, and you call back that energy every single time you look at it or use it or pass by it in the room. So much fun.

Chelle: Which which feeds into the whole idea of the spell. It it's just it's all a part of the pieces of the puzzle. So, that's kind of what I've been what I've been doing lately, kind of gearing up because, you know, we are in the witchy season and

Laylla: Mabon's right around the corner. Second harvest, the fall equinox.

Chelle: It is, and in the blink of an eye, it'll be Samhain, so.

Laylla: Leaves have already started turning here.

Chelle: I think a lot of that here, I I honestly think some of it is drought.

Laylla: Yeah.

Chelle: Even here in the Northeast, you don't see leaves turning in August, for God's sakes.

Laylla: Not usually. It's just so dry. But typically, right around the beginning of September, I mean, that's when you're going to even on a non- non-drought year, you'll start to catch those those first hints of that fall smell or that fall wind, you know, even in California, you get to start to feel when the weather breaks, when just you get that little tiny hint of something right before right right around the beginning of September, I think, I start to sense fall coming.

Chelle: Yeah. Actually, that was this weekend here in the Northeast. You're like, 'Eh, it's nice out, but it's a different kind of nice.'

Laylla: Yeah, exactly. It's that different kind of You kind of feel the vibe changing as the season gets ready to shift.

Chelle: Damn you, pumpkin spice people.

Laylla: [Laughter] I am ready to get my basic fall bitch on, absolutely. I cannot wait. I I'm not a huge I love pumpkin pie, don't get me wrong, but I'm not a pumpkin spice in everything kind of person. But I do love fall, love it, cannot wait. I'm excited to be out there for the fall weather and to experience like real fall, nothing like East Coast New England fall.

Chelle: Oh, you mean Southern California doesn't have bitching falls?

Laylla: No. No, we do not. It's It's brown, it's dead, it's hot. [Laughter] It's hot. Motherfucking hot.

Chelle: We're getting into flannel time, at least at nighttime. We I've been doing this thing lately. I've been traveling up to New Hampshire on the weekends, and

Laylla: Nice.

Chelle: let me tell you, I was in New Hampshire last night, and it was like flannel, you could still wear shorts, but it was like shorts with a flannel shirt on weather, and it was like, 'Yes.'

Laylla: You sound like an upstate New York girl right there, flannel with your shorts on. [Laughter]

Chelle: Don't don't forget that I have the flip-flops.

Laylla: Oh, perfect. Perfect. [Laughter] Now you need some fuzzy Uggs flip-flops.

Chelle: If that doesn't scream upstate New York, I don't know what does.

Laylla: Perfect. Perfect. So, what are you smoking tonight over there, Chelle?

Chelle: I've actually just opened a thing of End Game. I've smoked this before. I love this stuff. It's It's a great manipulative high. You can manipulate it to be down and in and and gooey, or you can manipulate it to be up and chatty and active. I like this. I like I like this End Game. I think this one is coming in at either 29 or 30. It's exactly what I expect when I get this particular whatever you call it.

Laylla: Nice. That's perfect. I love that End Game. You you always seem to like that. And again, I am still smoking homegrown GG4 and some Black Cherry Gelato.

Chelle: You're not allowed to call it that.

Laylla: Oh, right. Sorry. GG4.

Chelle: There.

Laylla: GG4. Got to satisfy the censors. Everyone still calls it Gorilla Glue as far as I know. [Laughter]

Chelle: You know, and the funny thing is is that everybody who smokes weed knows the difference between when you're talking about Gorilla Glue and when you're talking about Gorilla Glue. Are you try- Are you trying to fix your tent, or are you trying to get high? We know the difference here, Mr. Glue Company.

Laylla: Exactly. Exactly. And it kind of turned me off the company when they were mad about the homage to them in weed. I mean, come on, get with the times. Be happy about it. I'd be happy if there was weed named after me. If there was the Laylla strain, I'd be all over that shit.

Chelle: I never saw Tootsie Roll gum go after the weed industry, just saying.

Laylla: It's true, but who the fuck knows that Tootsie Roll still makes gum?

Chelle: Oh, is that Is that just like telling my age? [Laughter]

Laylla: We like to do that here. We do like to do that. But I have been like totally into these Gelato strains lately. So, even though I'm I'm trying to save money and smoke my own lovely GG4, I had to get some Gelato, and this is a Black Cherry Gelato. Everything lately is black something I have had. Black Diamond, Black Triangle, Black Cherry Gelato, Black Night,

Chelle: Is it darker? Is it like a darker

Laylla: Black Cherry. Yeah, all of these have been like a purple. They've been a a purple strain, all the different um black nomenclature ones I've had.

Chelle: Maybe that's why they're calling everything black right now because it's all coming out purple.

Laylla: It's all coming up purple everywhere. I love it. I do love a purple strain. But yeah, so it's yummy. I've I've found that I am super partial to a Gelato. If I'm going to go someplace and spend any kind of money, then I'm going to look for something really, really crystalline, really tasty, and I have not been let down yet if I've said, 'Show me your Gelatos,' and they pull them all out. I have They've all been delicious.

Chelle: Give me all your Gelatos, man.

Laylla: Yeah, no exception. They're usually high THCs, anywhere from 25% to 35%. I don't remember which one this is, but it was right up there, and it tastes fantastic. Tastes better than my GG4. But,

Chelle: And it does still have here the ridiculous packaging.

Laylla: It Yeah. Yeah. Some places are better than others. Lately, I've been going to this one grower that just does glass jars.

Chelle: Ah.

Laylla: And I can take the glass jars back.

Chelle: Oh, okay. They're recyclable.

Laylla: I'm going to I love that. I am all over that. The the person who's packaging them takes responsibility for their package and takes it back? Yes, please. Everyone should do that. Take responsibility for your fucking packaging. If you're going to put it in a jar and shrink-wrap it and then put it in a box and shrink-wrap that and then put it in a fucking plastic clamshell case, you better take all of that back and have a plan to reuse it or recycle it.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: It's got to be in the manufacturer's hands. It can't just be in ours. Make it out of hemp. Make it out of hemp plastic. That shit breaks down. I mean, come on. Spend an extra penny here. You guys are making money hand over fucking fist and be good to the planet. Fuck. Okay, rant over.

Chelle: Damn. I was going to say that's a different podcast, but you just laid it all out on the line.

Laylla: I laid it right out there. So, after my nice little rant, do you have a a story to tell me while I smoke on this delicious gelato?

Chelle: I do have a story. And, you know, with the second harvest approaching, with September approaching, which of course was September approaching means October's approaching.

Laylla: I think this episode, does this episode go out in September? Shit.

Chelle: It should.

Laylla: Hold on. With September here.

Chelle: So, now that it's September, we have to gear up for what is known all across the land as the spookiest time of year.

Laylla: The spooky season. Better known as Chelle and Laylla's favorite time of year.

Chelle: Correct. So, I am focusing on some ghosties tonight. You know, I've done a lot in the Northeast. I've done a lot in Massachusetts and in New York. And we're going to spend a lot of October in Salem. So, I thought I'd do something a little different. We're going to go to Savannah, Georgia. There's this place in Savannah, Georgia, called the Moon River Brewery, which of course, as soon as I saw Moon River, I'm like, "Ooh, let me see what that's all about." So, the Moon River Brewery.

Laylla: Hey, I'm down for a Moon River Brewery. I I would drink that shit. I'm not even a beer drinker and that sounds fun to me.

Chelle: I know. And you know, and the thing about Savannah is Savannah, Georgia, is a very old, very beautiful place. Savannah's known for many things.

Laylla: I wouldn't think they were known for beer. Mint juleps, maybe. Beer?

Chelle: Well, I don't know if they're known for the beer, but they're going to be known for this ghost.

Laylla: Okay.

Chelle: Now, it's only been the Moon River Brewing Company for like 10 years.

Laylla: Oh, okay. Never mind then.

Chelle: Yeah. It's the building and what it was prior and and everything that happened prior. It just is present day, it is called the Moon River Brewing Company.

Laylla: Interesting. Yeah.

Chelle: They've had this brewery for about 10 years, and employees and patrons have reported seeing ghostly beings and shadow people and even paranormal events at Moon River, because apparently there's a river right there called Moon River. Get it?

Laylla: Okay. Makes sense. Makes total sense.

Chelle: Also, just as a side note, ghost hunters and ghost adventurers have both been here and have found what they feel to be entities that live there. What it was is the building, like I said, it's only been the brewery for like 10 years, but the building itself was built in 1821 by a man named Eleazer Early. And it was first

Laylla: Quite the name.

Chelle: I know, right? In 1821, it was first used as the City's Hotel. So, basically Savannah's prominent and wealthy residents would regularly gather here to drink their fancy drinks and have their fancy parties, and there was a lot of notable people who stayed at this City's Hotel. They had long-stay things, like, you know, those long-stay, like, rentals.

Laylla: Yeah.

Chelle: So, they would have like some of those early, quote unquote, celebrity-type people, military generals. There were some folks that were, uh, delegations from from other places would come over and stay at this hotel. I guess it was very fancy.

Laylla: They had a wide clientele of of high higher-type people.

Chelle: Yes. Actually, General Sherman stayed at this hotel. But it had its last guest in 1864, right before the city was claimed during the American Civil War.

Laylla: Wow.

Chelle: So, then it also then became, they ended up having it serve as a hospital, and it served as a hospital not only during the Civil War, but during some of Savannah's numerous yellow fever outbreaks.

Laylla: Oh, no.

Chelle: So, hundreds of people, mostly children, died in some of the upper floors during these yellow fever outbreaks. So, it was a hospital during the war, it was a hotel for super rich people to begin with. You know, you can't expect it to not be haunted.

Laylla: Right, right. There's so much there. I mean, just being a hospital, there had to have been so much death.

Chelle: Well, like I said, between being a hospital for the Civil War and then being a hospital for yellow fever outbreaks, you know, uh.

Laylla: Yeah.

Chelle: They, you know, they would use some of it for storage space, and it sat vacant for 20 years. It actually got repurchased in 1995, and that's when it was, it kind of became the the the brewing company. But they have every floor, literally every floor they have gotten some sort of activity. There's ghosts in the basement. The most famous of the ghosts at the Moon River Brewing Company is one that the staff call Toby.

Laylla: Mhm.

Chelle: He is always seen kind of moving silently through the shadows.

Laylla: Aw.

Chelle: Yeah, it's it's almost like he was a worker there. At one point, for a brief period of time, it served as the city's post office, and they think that maybe Toby might have been a postal worker who kind of just doesn't realize he's not done working.

Laylla: How many incarnations has this building had?

Chelle: Well, it was built in 1821, so, I mean, a dozen?

Laylla: Wow.

Chelle: Just under a dozen. There was a woman that was doing a ghost tour that thought she encountered Toby and actually started having panic attacks and they had to have an ambulance come get her.

Laylla: No shit. That's fucking creepy.

Chelle: She said the whole right side of her body became ice cold, and that she was hearing voices that she couldn't control, but she couldn't make out what they were saying.

Laylla: Oh, damn.

Chelle: Yeah. Yeah. So, then the second floor, there was a shooting, the famous shooting of James Stark. He was shot by the town physician, and he was killed at the top of the staircase to the second floor. So, of course, this guy is kind of meandering around. People say that they see his apparition and that he has a hole in him, basically like the bullet hole, and they can see his whole apparition, but then this hole they can see through more clearly.

Laylla: Oh, shit. Like, that sounds so horrible.

Chelle: Yeah, it does. Holy crap. That sounds like a creepy ghost to see. I don't want to see that.

Laylla: I know. On the upper floors, they have all kinds of shadowy figures. They have an infamous Lady in White.

Chelle: Oh, yes. Love those.

Laylla: Of course, you know. And why why is there always a Lady in White?

Chelle: I don't know. There always seems to be, though.

Laylla: There are people that claim that they felt like they were being pushed down the stairs.

Chelle: Oh, damn.

Laylla: A construction crew was chased out of the building by, quote unquote, unforeseen forces. The fourth floor, I guess, harbors, they claim, a dark energy, and it is known that during a lot of the yellow fever outbreaks, that that part, that top floor, was where a lot of the older people were that died. So, between people who lost their battles with disease, people who were murdered, just a lot going on here.

Chelle: Yeah, that's a lot. Holy crap. And they all still seem to roam the halls.

Laylla: They all seem to still be there. They are actually doing ghost tours at this place. You can go on anytime and get a ghost tour, which I think, you know, I think the the coolest thing about this, yes, ghost tours are cool, but you get the things like, this building was built in 1821. How cool is that?

Chelle: That's pretty fun.

Laylla: But, you know, unfortunately, there was a lot of violence here. There was a lot of heartbreak here. Of course, in the early 1800s, when it was a hotel, there were people that were lynched right out in the front.

Chelle: Damn.

Laylla: Yeah, there were people who were beaten to death in the bar on the first floor of the hotel.

Chelle: Wow. So, it's seen a lot of violence, not just death.

Laylla: Yeah. I mean, they have also had ghostly apparitions in what used to be the bar's billiard room. They there's been glowing white apparitions. People have seen just eyes in dark hallways. All they see is eyes.

Chelle: That would creep me the fuck out. Just like glowing eyes down the hallway. Uh.

Laylla: Yeah. Yeah. But like I said, now it's it's an active brewery. It's one of those microbreweries you can go and and have some yummy, yummy good stuff.

Chelle: Get some haunted beer.

Laylla: Have some haunted beer with some haunted, freaking fried mozzarella sticks. I don't know.

Chelle: I love me some good haunted fried mozzarella sticks. I'm so there.

Laylla: But then you can also do the the ghost tour that they have there. You know, there's a lot of things going on in in Savannah, Georgia, but I want to go to all the ghosty places and this seems like a good one.

Chelle: I think like everywhere in Savannah, Georgia, is haunted. So, that sound like a good place to start.

Laylla: Right, right. And, you know, I think one of the things that people forget is every city pretty much has some weird ghosty past.

Chelle: Yeah, if you look it up, you can find it. You don't even have to scratch very hard for a lot of these stories. They're right there. The local legends, the

Laylla: Yeah. I thought, well, jeez, I want to stay away from the Northeast this week. Can I find can I find something? Lord, like every city has everybody has their own story and that's that's kind of the fun thing about doing this is we get to find out all these little stories from all over the country.

Chelle: One of these days, you and I are going to go on the best road trip to find all of the portals to hell in America. And we're going to go to all the states and we'll see all the coolest places and then we'll see if we can find what is really the most haunted hotel, what's really the most haunted cemetery, who is the craziest Lady in White in all of the land.

Laylla: Yes. And where's the actual gateway to hell? So, we can find that out. I know we can. We just have to go to all these places. That's all.

Chelle: So, I think that this brewery would be a definite interesting place to check out. It's got a lot of years of history, a lot of years of history. You know, if you think of it, it's already 201 years old. A lot of shit's gone down in 201 years. I'd be down. If I was down in Savannah, Georgia, I'd be like, "Let's go."

Laylla: I would too. I want to go. That sounds like a great place. And my spot, interestingly, is a bar. So, I love that you did a brewery because I did a haunted bar that also didn't start out as a bar and has a history.

Chelle: Well, how ironic. The funny thing is, and I don't know if people understand this, but we don't really like chat about what our stories are going to be beforehand.

Laylla: No, I had told you last episode that I was doing a haunted pub, but I know you had already picked yours, you just weren't going to tell us. So, I'm pretty impressed. So, yes, I am doing a haunted pub. It's called Kells Irish Pub.

Chelle: Oh.

Laylla: It was built in 1903. It's in Seattle, Washington.

Chelle: Okay.

Laylla: It's known for having Seattle's largest collection of single malt scotch and ghosts.

Chelle: Interesting. Scotch and ghosts.

Laylla: Scotch and ghosts. It's got so many ghosts that Ghost Adventures has been there. You know, they've had quite a few people come in and do ghost hunting tours or or investigations.

Chelle: Thank you.

Laylla: Ghost hunting investigations there. They have found that it is crawling with haunts. And the reason why is kind of sick and twisted.

Chelle: Oh, boy.

Laylla: So, Kells Irish Pub, before it became, you know, this wonderful restaurant serving fabulous single malt scotch, food, and booze, it was, uh, built to be a mortuary.

Chelle: Oh.

Laylla: Not any mortuary, the country's first mortuary.

Chelle: Oh.

Laylla: So, it was built by a gentleman named E. R. Butterworth. And he's basically invented the modern funeral. He started out as a, um, furniture maker. But a gentleman that he knew, his wife and daughter died, and they didn't have a coffin for them. And so E. R. Butterworth used his wagon that he had taken across the United States to get to Washington, and he he used it to make two beautiful coffins for this man's wife and daughter. And this kind of sparked the beginning where he realized he could make a lot more money doing coffins and taking in bodies than he could making furniture.

Chelle: Wow.

Laylla: Right? So, he settled in Seattle, Washington, and he started in a couple different buildings. One of them was a old Masonic temple and a couple different places. And he started taking in bodies, because not everybody at that time in the early 1900s, there weren't very many people who would process dead bodies, I guess. So, E. R. Butterworth saw that there was a need for it, particularly because in 1918 was the big flu outbreak. And like you said, there was yellow fever and all these different diseases that happened. In Seattle, bodies would just kind of pile up in the streets.

Chelle: Uh-huh.

Laylla: To the point where the city started offering a bounty of $50 per body.

Chelle: Wow.

Laylla: If you brought in the bodies, because there there was tuberculosis, diphtheria, Spanish flu, like I said, all these diseases are happening and people are just dying left and right. And so to keep the streets clean, the city offered a bounty. $50 in that time was equivalent to roughly $1,000 a body today.

Chelle: Wow.

Laylla: And so E. R. Butterworth and his sons started taking them in and they, I it doesn't say how they invented the words mortuary and mortician, but apparently they're the first ones to start using those words. So, they capitalized on this bounty and had enough money that they hired an architect to build a big huge building. He hired John Graham, who's an English architect. And that guy's firm is the one that later built the Space Needle in Seattle, Washington.

Chelle: Oh, wow.

Laylla: Famous architect dude. So, he drew up this building that was done in the Beaux-Arts style, which, I don't know, it just means kind of like ugly ornate flat building. I don't know what Beaux-Arts style. But it had like three lions on the front of it, you know, ornate looking for the time. But he built it so that he could process bodies. He had a crematorium on site, and he also had on the upper floors, he had places where services could be held, there were offices. And this was one of the first like one-stop shopping for for dead people. You bring in the dead bodies, you get your casket here, you have someone who helps you plan your your funeral service, and then they also handle burying the body or cremating it later. And this was the first place anywhere in the United States to have everything that you needed for funeral services under one roof. It was a grand five-story mortuary. It had a chapel with room for over 200 mourners in it, a columbarium, which I have no idea what that is, but I guess it's for storing funeral urns, a place to show all the caskets that they made, and the first elevator on the West Coast that was used exclusively for transporting bodies up and down. This huge ode to death and dying, basically. It was it was a place entirely from top to bottom for the deceased and for the people that they left behind. And it was the first one of its kind anywhere.

Chelle: Wow.

Laylla: So, there was nothing else like it in the US. It was grand. They had a big huge grand chapel on the second floor, and and they were just kind of making money hand over fist at this mortuary. Now, at the same time that the Butterworths are having this mortuary, there's also operating in town a woman who is a serial killer. So, it's it's in the town of Olalla, which is right across the Puget Sound, Puget, Puget Sound, Puget Sound.

Chelle: Puget.

Laylla: Puget Sound. It's right across from Puget Sound from Seattle. And in Olalla is a woman named Dr. Linda Hazzard. And Dr. Hazzard was what she called a fasting specialist. She had developed something called the beautiful, the beauty regime. She decided that at the heart of all problems in your life was cravings, cravings for anything, in particular cravings for food, I guess. And if you could, if you could conquer these cravings, you could cure everything and be more beautiful and be healthy. And so she would have people come to her and she'd talk to them about having their digestive systems rest. Some of this is like real science and some of it's complete and total bunk. Basically, she was selling anorexia. She would have people come and she would feed them like a half a cup of tomato broth a day.

Chelle: What?

Laylla: And they would waste away. She said that this was like flushing their systems, but she would make them do it for months. And then they would die, of course. And she would send them off to the Butterworths and they would split the money.

Chelle: The Butterworths. I still can't get over that name, by the way.

Laylla: Right? So, a couple of the people that were victims of Dr. Linda Hazzard, like you would think with all these people dropping dead from her treatment, that she would stop or that people would try to stop her, but no, nobody did.

Chelle: Weird.

Laylla: She even, some of her treatments involved massages that were more like brutal beatings, and they would have to do like vegetable broth enemas, where they'd be laid in these tubs in these various like leather strap systems in case they fainted.

Chelle: That's fucked up.

Laylla: And given these terrible enemas. Just the things that she put these people through, it was terrible. It was awful. So, this went on for quite a while until she fucked with the wrong people, I guess. These two sisters named Claire and Dorothea, Claire and Dorothea Williamson, and they were orphans, but their family was very well off. And they decided that, um, because they had various health issues, one of them had something called a dropped uterus and the other one had like glandular issues.

Chelle: Uh-huh.

Laylla: They thought that this new age treatment with Dr. Hazzard would be the best thing for themselves. So, they went to get treated. And like 50 days after they signed themselves in, they both were dropped down to about 70 pounds each.

Chelle: Oh, wow.

Laylla: You know, they they were going through a whole anorexic thing, you know, their bones were poking out, and they couldn't even sit down. So, unfortunately, this went on for a little bit longer and they they both passed away and they went to the Butterworths' mortuary. But the girls' family decided to check up on them and came all the way over to America and discovered that the girls had only weighed 50 pounds at the time of their death.

Chelle: Oh, wow.

Laylla: Yeah. So, they, of course, raised a fuss and there was an investigation done and Dr. Hazzard was found to not only have starved these girls, but she had also been appointed executor of Claire's estate and Dorothea's guardian for life. And in her possession, she had all of Claire's clothes, a bunch of her household goods, jewelry, sapphires, diamonds, and valuables worth roughly $6,000 at the time.

Chelle: Oh, wow.

Laylla: So, she was definitely not a nice person, and she had somewhat of a kind of side gig going with the Butterworths.

Chelle: He and his sons had to know that something was shady with all the emaciated corpses that they were getting from Dr. Hazard, but they kept pocketing the money, and they never raised any concerns.

Laylla: So, she did eventually get caught and tried, but the Butterworths continued on, and after they all passed on, the building was sold, and it did become a bar. It was purchased in the 1990s, and it was turned into Kells Irish Restaurant and Pub.

Chelle: Oh. It's weird to think of a Irish pub in Seattle. But anyway.

Laylla: Well, apparently, they sell quite a bit of, you know, fabulous Irish food there. Everybody loves it.

Chelle: Ooh.

Laylla: It's been owned by the McAleese, the McAleese family since 2005. Now, you can go there and get your single malt scotch. You can watch the ghost. People very often see a couple ghosts that are considered regulars. There's a little girl who has red hair that's in ringlets, and she'll often be seen skipping through the bar. She likes to move glasses and move objects that are in the bar, and they think that she's one of the children that had died from the 1918 flu.

Chelle: Ah.

Laylla: And she's not dangerous at all, but she is known to giggle. People will hear her laughing and trying to get people to play games with her. And just like one of the ghosts that you mentioned, sometimes people will think she's a real child.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: And will ask about her. Another one that's known, this one's a mirror ghost. He often pops up in the mirror, the Guinness mirror in the back on the back wall, and people will see this older man wearing like a derby hat in the mirror, but he's nowhere in the room.

Chelle: Oh.

Laylla: He often shows up, particularly when there's Irish music. They play live bands at this bar, and so he'll show up very often when there's Irish music being played. People say that maybe Charlie doesn't like other mirrors because other mirrors being put up on the walls will shatter. They can't keep mirrors up in the place. Things will fall off the walls, pictures fall off the walls, glasses and things regularly move on the bar. And they regularly hear someone asking, "Why are you here?" Or they'll see an older man in a suit walking through the hallway.

Chelle: So, some people have reported seeing the ghost of what appears to be a shooting victim kind of stumbling all bloody and wounded before dropping to the ground, presumably dead, and then disappearing right before their eyes.

Laylla: And even the people that own it now say that they can still sometimes smell formaldehyde.

Chelle: Oh.

Laylla: So, from the mortuary.

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: It's one of those very creepy places. So, there's a lot of bodies there from mining accidents and violence, including some people who were killed by gun violence in the city. And sometimes they'll see a shooting victim walk through that has like a what looks like might be bullet wounds, just like you said. Somebody has like a bullet wound.

Chelle: That's so weird because you never hear of that happening, and we both heard that.

Laylla: And now that we both have something to do with beer.

Chelle: That's so weird.

Laylla: But being a mortuary, they handled all sorts of different types of.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: Yeah, not just from Dr. Hazard, the serial killer, but but also from from the flu, from shooting victims. I mean, this was a tumultuous time, and and they handled pretty much the burial of almost everybody in Seattle at that time.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: You know, it was built to handle the hundreds of dead bodies piling up, and it just didn't stop. There were so many so many things going on in the early 1900s.

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: So, in 2010, Ghost Adventures from the Travel Channel went there and did an investigation. In their photos that they took, one of them has a disfigured child sitting on the steps going up to the bar. And they have EVPs of tortured whispers, you know, people saying, "Help me," and people just sounding like that they're in pain, and the sound of footsteps.

Chelle: Oh. There's been an- another sighting was by a woman named Karen McAleese, who, and it's her family that owns the pub currently. And a few years ago, she was in the restaurant, and she's absolutely sure that she saw a man, a strange-looking man in a suit come stumbling out of the kitchen. She says, quote, "He was a tall man with a suit jacket on. He had very thin hands. He walked to the end of the bar and just kind of faded." Another time, apparently, a shaman was asked to come to the bar, and they ended up counting 19 ghosts, according to Mercedes Yeager, who's one of the people who leads ghost tours in the area. A lot of the ghosts that people see appear to be emaciated and gaunt, and it's speculated that these are the souls of people that were killed by Dr. Hazard's beautiful treatment. Now, the bar is so haunted that they keep holy water behind the bar along with the alcohol.

Laylla: I don't know if that's exciting or frightening. All the people that work there say that they they regularly feel cold spots. You know, they'll see people that shouldn't be there. There it's one of the very most haunted bars in the country. So, there you have it, yet another haunted bar.

Chelle: I just think it's so cool that we both ended up with similar haunted bars.

Laylla: And it seems like these old, old buildings just kind of go through so many incarnations of different things that they just keep kind of picking up all these different energies and vibes, you know?

Chelle: Yeah, I know. It's crazy. I am eating Crunch 'n Munch. I'm sorry, but, you know, when you're high, Crunch 'n Munch is good.

Laylla: I wish I had some Crunch 'n Munch. I would totally eat Crunch 'n Munch. That's delicious.

Chelle: I feel like that's such like an '80s snack, and I love it.

Laylla: Oh, so good. Who doesn't love caramel and popcorn? I mean, it's fantastic.

Chelle: Right?

Laylla: So, mortuaries and breweries.

Chelle: Uh-huh. Craziness.

Laylla: Too many ghosts to count. But how fun would it be to go someplace and have, you know, have your little your little fried mushrooms and and some good single malt scotch and just sit back and watch the ghosty stuff fly?

Chelle: I know.

Laylla: I don't know about the mirror ghost, though. Those creepy out. I do not like ghosts in mirrors. That's just weird. Too alternate dimensiony for me.

Chelle: You know, I guess it just reminds me of the horror movies when we were younger where like something was always coming to screw your ass out of that mirror.

Laylla: That's true. That's true. If you see an entity in a mirror, I mean, that's just that's when you kind of leave. That's the time when you get out, really.

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: What's the common wisdom? Should you break the mirror or not break the mirror if you see something creepy in it?

Chelle: All right. Based on my spiritual beliefs, I find it to be bad luck, so I cannot do that. No, it is against my nature. No.

Laylla: Yeah, I'm I'm in the don't break the mirror camp. I feel like if you break it, you're releasing something. So, I'm in the spray paint it with black spray paint, you know, do something maybe bury it somewhere.

Chelle: Don't break it. Breaking it, you are asking for something that you're just you might as well just go fuck around and find out with a Ouija board if you're going to go break the mirror. There you go. That's right. That's right. But, you know, we should go to these places because I hear at Kells, they regularly get orb photographs, you know, they see shapes and figures and blurred figures, and there's lots of EVPs that get caught there. So, I would love to go do an investigation at both of these places and see what we could find.

Chelle: Hell yeah.

Laylla: Oh, and speaking of investigation, when we come out there, we're going to be doing some investigations at maybe at least one of these stops. We should ask our listeners, what do you want us to.

Chelle: What do they want to hear? Yeah, what do you want to hear?

Laylla: What do you want to hear, and what is your favorite investigative tool? Do you like the EVPs? Do you like pictures? Do you want the spirit box? You know, what are you looking for? Do you like the little flashlight game where they turn the flashlight on and off? What's your favorite, most interesting, most unexplainable ghost hunting tool? I want to know. We'll do it.

Chelle: Or do you like just saying, "Hey, is anybody out there?"

Laylla: Right? And then going, you know, the thermal imaging can and checking the different cold spots. And, of course, we're both going to be in our best witchy intuitive modes trying to to suss out any feelings or psychic impressions that we get from the areas. So, I'm really stoked. And I kind of want to I know this is like offering your collection of tarot cards up, but, damn, you've got the best tarot card collection. I almost want to do a little competition contest, maybe, with our listeners. We're getting some of these, you know, listener stories, creepy, spooky, stoner, witchy stories, personal stories for our next Book Three of Your Spooky Stories. How about of the ones that we pick, we'll each of us pick one at random, and we'll give that person a tarot reading using one of a random one of your tarot decks.

Chelle: What a fabulous idea.

Laylla: So, send in your stories. If we pick your story, we just might pick it for you to get a tarot reading, one from Chelle, one from Laylla, with some random, amazing, awesome deck from Chelle's collection. But, yeah, if you want to win a tarot reading, send us a a spooky true story.

Chelle: Absolutely, because, you know, the most fun is hearing your stories. Our stories are fun, and we laugh at ourselves. We get such a kick out of our damn selves, but we want to hear your stories because as fun as ours are, yours are better.

Laylla: They're so fucking creepy, Chelle. I love our listener stories. They have just some of them have kept me up at night, I swear.

Chelle: Our listeners have good shit to tell us.

Laylla: We really do.

Chelle: Some of these people, I kind of laugh because I'm like, "Holy crap, why aren't you guys like putting this stuff on on like Ghost Adventures, having these professionals come in and like check your stuff out?"

Laylla: Right? Sometimes people should. Honestly, they should go check out my my dad's old house.

Chelle: Yeah, right?

Laylla: Ghost Adventures should totally go there. But, yeah, so join us next week on Episode 34 of The Stoned Witches Hour with Chelle and Laylla. We will be dropping a new episode at 4:20 AM next Wednesday.

Chelle: Be there or be square.

Laylla: Be high, be happy, and get ready to be spooked.

Chelle: Hell yeah. Thanks for listening to The Stoned Witches Hour with Chelle and Laylla. If you like what you heard, please rate us and consider giving us a review. It really helps the show out, and we'll definitely take a toke of the kindest bud in your honor.
