Laylla: Welcome to Back on the Broomstick, a modern witches' spoken word grimoire, where two witchy friends from way back are reconnecting to their pagan roots after a long period of mundanity.

Chelle: We're rewalking the path of the wise and trying out all the latest spells, rituals, and magical theory in today's witchcraft and pagan practices.

Laylla: So grab your wand and your incense, your cauldron and your crystals, and join us as we get back on the broomstick.

Laylla: Hi, and welcome to Back on the Broomstick. I'm Laylla.

Chelle: And I'm Chelle. And today we are going to talk about something that I actually think is fun. You can twist it any way you want, but I think it's fun. Mirror magic.

Laylla: And I think it's a little freaky, but very effective.

Chelle: Yeah, but you got to think, the first time you were exposed to mirror magic, and and this is true for most people in our age group, I believe. The first time you were you were exposed to mirror magic was in Disney movies, man.

Laylla: Mirror, mirror on the wall, who's the fairest of them all?

Chelle: Oh yeah, and let's not forget right after that, then in our preteen years sleepovers, what mirror magic did we do there?

Laylla: Oh lord, Bloody Mary.

Chelle: Oh, I'm not even going to say it. Mm-mm. No, nope, no.

Laylla: I'm not going to say it three times.

Chelle: I'll say it once, but I'm not going to go looking in a mirror and saying it three times because the Gen X in me says hell no. Hell no.

Laylla: No, that's not something any of us will do. No, nope.

Chelle: You know, I'll do a lot of things and I'll call upon a lot of things, but I ain't doing that thing. I ain't going to say it again. I ain't doing that thing because my preteen brain says hell no. Danger, danger. But you know, mirror, mirror on the wall, who's the fairest of them all? We grew up with that as little girls.

Laylla: Right, we knew mirrors were magical even then.

Chelle: And the mirror would talk to her. A face would appear and talk to her. How would I not think mirrors are magical?

Laylla: Everyone thinks mirrors are magical, right back into the Greek myth of Narcissus when he saw his reflection in the water and fell in love with himself. I mean, what isn't magical about seeing your reflection, being able to see yourself for the first time? Mirrors are inherently magical and freaky.

Chelle: I do want to point out this little tidbit I came across that that involves mirrors.

Laylla: What you got?

Chelle: 1894, Finland. Okay?

Laylla: Okay, height of the spiritualism time.

Chelle: Actually, yeah, it was. Um, there was a cl- a clairvoyant named Armas Pasanen, and he was given th- this nickname that basically meant mirror boy. I'm not going to try to say the nickname because it's in Finnish and we all know I'm bad with pronunciations, but it translates to mirror boy. He claimed to see the future as well as past events by looking in the mirror. Um, and this actually was kind of tied to a tradition in Finland because what they would do is they had um what was called New Year's mirror magic, and in Finnish folklore, the New Year's tradition was to use a double mirror for looking for signs of your future spouse.

Laylla: Oh, okay. That's kind of cool spell.

Chelle: Yeah, I mean, that was like us as teenagers using Ouija boards to find out our future spouse.

Laylla: Sure.

Chelle: So in Finland, they they would do that. So he kind of took a twist on that and was able to kind of see the future and past events. Most of his village thought it was positive, but some people, as you can imagine, thought he was like a product of the devil. As a child, he had been lost in the woods for a few days, and some people feel that he got the gifts of looking into the mirrors after his stint being lost in the woods. So, as you can imagine, as with some folk things, some people saw that as an evil thing, some people thought saw it as a gift. But he would come and he would he he was able actually to see his future spouse, who did, you know, he saw this little girl in the mirror, ended up becoming his wife. But he also was utilized by the police to solve crimes.

Laylla: Oh.

Chelle: He would also help in finding lost items. One of his most famous cases using his mirrors was um in 1934, there was a merchant named Martti Sacks, and it was like this famous murder case. He actually was able to give a description of the murderer to the police through his mirror magic.

Laylla: Wow.

Chelle: And it was accurate. They got him, you know, totally spot on. Here we go, mirror magic.

Laylla: Kind of like those modern-day psychics who like to work with the police in some cases.

Chelle: Yeah, yeah, yeah, but he was using it all through mirror magic. I always thought it was really for scrying, other than, you know, that we shall not mention from our teenage years.

Laylla: Yes, mirrors are excellent for scrying because obviously you can see things in them. And so if you use a mirror, particularly one that has a surface that you can get lost in, that's why people like crystal balls because you can't really see your reflection clearly, you can see other things in it. Or an obsidian or a black mirror, like in our newsletter we talk about how to make a black mirror that you can use. The idea is to have a reflective surface that you can kind of soften your eyes, soften your gaze, let your subconscious and your magical self gaze into this.

Chelle: But not necessarily looking at yourself.

Laylla: Right, not looking at you specifically or an exact reflection of something. You're supposed to let your intuitive and your magical mind go, and and a black reflective surface or a crystal ball or something like that is much easier to do that in.

Chelle: What I like to do is the black mirror um with the candle um and kind of focus in on that flame, but you could just as easily not have the candle and just have had it right with just the flat surface.

Laylla: I do remember one ritual at the land where our local pagan community would gather. We had two large fields that were connected by a path through the woods along the river, and we would often use that path as a transition from the mundane world into our magical and ritual space. And so very often that path would be decorated with candles and different things, different gateways very often to help you pass from the quote-unquote real world into magical space. And I do remember one particular ritual, I think it was done multiple times, where at one of the gates, someone had a large, shallow metal bowl that they had filled with water from the river, and the moon shined right into the water of that bowl, and you were supposed to stop and do some scrying in the water of that bowl, and that is a beautiful way to do scrying. Do you remember that ritual, Chelle?

Chelle: I do, I do, and I I remember stopping at that bowl and, you know, that was kind of a more personal experience we won't get into, but it was very moving. And, you know, just on the point of scrying, it doesn't have to necessarily be a mirror like you just said. It can be water. I've even done it in a stream, not even a confined container per se, but, you know, scrying in a stream.

Laylla: Any reflective surface.

Chelle: Yeah, any reflective surface. But with the mirrors, I think what generally scares me with mirror magic is you see a reality that you might not otherwise see and it's right in your face. And sometimes that reality is maybe spirit activity. I I have done some mirror work in the past and I haven't been the only face in the mirror. You know?

Laylla: Yes, and I think that's where the mysticism and the magic comes from mirrors and why they freak me right the fuck out because there is a reflection there that sometimes isn't always this reality. Sometimes it's reflecting the spirit world, sometimes it's reflecting the future. I think everybody is a little tripped out by mirrors at some point because they are such a strange view into the world. Sometimes they feel more like doorways than reflective surfaces.

Chelle: You know, we've been touching on ancestor work here and there, um and have recently done an ancestor season.

Laylla: 'Tis the season.

Chelle: 'Tis the season. But I've actually done some really good ancestor work with mirrors because people show up and you just have a conversation. But yeah, when you're not the only one in the mirror, yeah.

Laylla: Probably one of my most intense ancestor meditations came when I was doing a ritual using mirrors, and I had one regular mirror up to reflect myself and to use as a portal, which was probably the first dumb idea. And then I had a then I had a black mirror set up. You know how you can put two mirrors together so they reflect each other and make a chain going back? I used that black mirror to then reflect myself back into history to reach back to touch ancestors.

Chelle: You created a portal in a portal in a portal in a portal.

Laylla: Thankfully, it was a very good, controlled portal. It was an excellent spell. Very, very powerful and very moving. But I mean, take two mirrors and have them reflect each other and and you'll feel something. When you look in that, you're going to feel creeped out, you're going to feel magic, you're going to feel you're going to feel those portals, feel those doorways.

Chelle: And, you know, I think with mirrors, there's also a way, you know, you kind of can do your own internal work. Um, the buzzword now is shadow work. But your own internal work, whether that be shadow or light work.

Laylla: Buzzword or not, it's good to do.

Chelle: Right, right. It's almost like you're talking to your own soul. You're having a conversation with your soul as opposed to I don't know, talking in your head is one thing, but when you look yourself in the mirror and having that conversation, it's almost like you feel accountable.

Laylla: Yes, and do you remember the old SNL skits with Jack Handey?

Chelle: Yeah, yeah, yeah.

Laylla: I'm awesome, I'm beautiful, and gosh darn it, people like me. I mean, there's there was a whole movement at one time to talk to yourself in the mirror. That can be as corny as those skits are, that can be very powerful. It's mirror magic.

Chelle: Yeah. But there's also, you know, there there can also be that um that divination side with scrying and and such. You know, I love a good divination tool. I truly do. You can do things to kind of get yourself in that meditative state, whether you use regular mirrors, black mirrors, what have you. Such as the story from Finland, you know, you can use that to tap into that quote-unquote psychic energy to see what is coming ahead or see what has come behind. I would think if you were going to try to do divination on past events, in my personal opinion, I would use the dual mirror, and for future, maybe just a singular mirror. But I really love the divination aspect of it. But again, um I have used it to do ancestor work because I don't know, I have better conversations when I'm in front of people and can talk to people and can see people and we're chatting, and what's the difference if it's my best friend or my ancestors? So, I like that mirror aspect, but then I get that whole Bloody Mary thing going on. I'm like, ah.

Laylla: Because of that Bloody Mary thing, and remind me, I have a story to tell you, one of the reasons why mirrors trip me out so much. But I like to use them for scrying as well, but I prefer the water in a bowl method for a couple reasons. One, because mirrors are a little too freaky for me to use it for divination, and two, because I I like the surface that water, particularly on a very dark bowl, gives. And I also like to add herbs or stones to my water when I'm going to do divination. I'm lucky enough that I have a very cool stone table in my backyard that I can set up as an altar. And so on a new moon or a dark moon, particularly, or a full moon, depending on your intention, shit, pick a pick a phase of the moon. You feel in the vibe, go out.

Chelle: And a moon, man.

Laylla: There you go. Take your bowl of water, I like a very shallow dish with a dark bottom, and I put some moon water in it, matching the phase, opposite the phase, again, depends on your intention and the witch. And then I'll put in some rosemary, some I love me some rosemary, but for clarity and to help for protection, and some bay, and some uh maybe some blue lotus to help your divination, to to focus your intent. You can use whatever herbs you like, maybe throw a crystal in there. And because the bottom is dark and it's water, you won't see them. It's not going to disturb the surface so much, and you can still use it for scrying. So I kind of like that type of surface and and because I can add things to it and because it's it's different than a mirror.

Chelle: I also think there's an aspect of glamour magic that can be done in mirrors.

Laylla: Oh, absolutely. We do it every day when we put our makeup on. You know, we're all talking self-be- hopefully, we're doing good self-talk while we're doing it, which is a type of spell. So if you're doing your makeup, don't be talking negative about yourself. You should be hyping yourself up because that's a type of glamour magic right there.

Chelle: By the time you're done, last look in that mirror, you just be like, damn, you look good.

Laylla: There you go. Perfect. Love that spell. One of my favorites.

Chelle: But, you know, I mean, there's just I I think they're universal because you can use them for divination, you can use them for spirit work, you can use them for spell work. The other thing that I'm a fan of, and I actually need to do this and have been remiss on this lately, is I need to do some magic protection work with my mirrors. So there's there's a there's a protection and a binding aspect of mirror work that I want to touch on, too. When we were kids, "I'm rubber, you're glue, whatever you throw at me bounces off me and sticks on you." That is like mirror magic in a nutshell, okay?

Laylla: The reflection spell.

Chelle: Right. You know, I'm not saying I want anything good or bad to happen to you either way. All I'm saying is whatever you're putting out to me, I would love for you to get back threefold. And if that is good, loving, and light, then great. And and if you're throwing me some shit and you get it back three times, you're bad.

Laylla: That has always been one of my favorite go-to spells. May you get what you deserve. Basically, whatever you're putting out in the world, particularly in my direction, you're going to get it back at least threefold.

Chelle: Have the day that karma meant you to have. That's, ooh, ooh, ooh, ouch.

Laylla: That could be actually for some people. No, that could be very good.

Chelle: Have the day that karma meant you to have. That's got nothing to do with me and my wishes. That's got to do with you and your karma.

Laylla: And the same thing with the mirror spell. If you if you want to protect yourself, one of the very positive ways is to throw up a ward, is to put a ward around yourself. And why not put a mirrored ward around it so that, like Chelle said, everything that people are sending at you gets bounced right back to them, good, bad, or indifferent?

Chelle: And I want to just put out a quick little, I know we've been spell-heavy, but I want to put out one more quick little spell for folks. You know, I I am almost shaken at the amount of times I see people online thinking that they have, you know, they've been cursed or someone's doing negative spells against them or this or that. If you feel for any reason, I am not negating anything that you feel about being cursed, if you feel that you are, the best thing I can tell you is think of yourself being put in the center of a sphere of mirrors all the way around you, and you are inside this little ball of mirrors. Anything being sent to you is just getting reflected back to sender. Return to sender, address unknown. And and if that's positive, then great. If people are sending you positive love and energy, then that's what they're going to get back. But if people are sending you shit, they're going to get shit back. So get in your sphere of get in your sphere of mirror.

Laylla: And if you want to protect yourself using mirrors and you, you know, maybe know that there's a few darker things being sent at you and you want to be a little bit more maybe forceful with your spell, you can do a witch bottle or a witch jar that we've talked about before. And instead of putting glass in there, you can put broken shards of mirror because, again, that reflection and refraction will bounce the energy back around over and over and over in that jar and keep it trapped there. So, your taglock that you put in that jar will direct the energy there instead of to you, and then the mirrors will keep it trapped there.

Chelle: But as a little PSA, please don't be a jerk and put your body your spell bottle in some inappropriate place that's going to kill the earth. We appreciate it.

Laylla: Thank you. Dispose of your spells properly.

Chelle: I'm going back to that Mountain Dew bottle story you told in.

Laylla: Oh my goodness, yeah.

Chelle: I mean, I just find that mirrors are a super universal usage thing, right down from your own personal magic to lift yourself up, right down to return to sender magic.

Laylla: Just like with anything, mirror magic, it is exactly what it says it is. It can reflect good, it can reflect bad. You can use a mirror to flash an SOS. You can use a mirror to reflect the light and start a fire. Just like you can do that in the physical world, you can do something similar in the magical world. You can use that mirror to call to your ancestors, send that SOS out to your ancestors. You can use the mirror to light the fire of love. You can use the mirror to burn down past things that no longer serve you. So, whatever you can use it for in the real world, you have a spell equivalent. Even to, at one time, we protected Chelle's apart- whole entire apartment by creating a mirror image of it, much like a taglock does in a spell jar. We created a mirror image of it to direct the bad energy there and then mirrored all that bad energy back to the person. So, all sorts of different creative ways that you can use mirrors in your magic.

Chelle: But definitely divination is is something that I I I want to do more of. I want to do more mirror divination work. I think that's that might be my next venture.

Laylla: So, I think they can also be portals to, I don't know what.

Chelle: I actually agree with that. To what, I'm not sure.

Laylla: And they always freak me out. I am a grown-ass adult, and to this day, a mirror in a darkened room gives me the heebie-jeebies.

Chelle: I feel the same way about mirrors that are against each other because I feel like that is creating that endless portal when they're mirrored against each other.

Laylla: Yes, I think that as well. Mirrors that reflect each other definitely very trippy. When I was a kid in my elementary school, we had everybody had those bathrooms, right? The big bathrooms with all the stalls and the big huge mirror behind the sinks, right?

Chelle: Yep, yep.

Laylla: One of the many bathrooms in my school was haunted, had bad energy, something. But every time I went into that one bathroom that was identical in every other way to all the other bathrooms, bad vibes. Hated that bathroom. And it was the mirror in particular that freaked me out. The hallway you came into in the bathroom, you couldn't see down the hallway in the mirror, but you could see the opening of it, and I just knew that there was something there. Well, one day I was in this bathroom, I come out of the stall, and I'm trying not to look at the mirror, and I go over to the sink and I wash my hands, and I look up, but my face isn't in the mirror. I just see the sink and then the stall reflected behind me, and I look over to that hallway, and I see myself walk into the bathroom and then walk into a stall.

Chelle: What?

Laylla: For a second, I was like in shock, and then I heard the water running in the sink, and I looked down and looked up again, and my reflection was back in the mirror. Never happened again, but it freaks me out to this day, and I hated that bathroom. Hated that bathroom.

Chelle: I would have never peed at school ever, ever, ever again. Never again. I would have held it till I got home. All through 12th grade.

Laylla: I tried even harder after that to not have to go into that particular bathroom. But mirrors to me are freaky and I'm pretty sure they're portals.

Chelle: I I do think that, hmm, I think they can be made into portals. I don't know if I think that they're naturally portals. I think they can be made into portals.

Laylla: Okay, I agree with that. Absolutely.

Chelle: When I when I go to to my Aunt Susie's house, I don't think her mirror is a portal. But could I make a mirror a portal? Yeah, I do think that. I do think that, yeah.

Laylla: Yeah, any mirrors you get, if you get an old mirror, if you move into a house with mirrors, it's always a good idea to cleanse them, to clear them. You can do that in all sorts of different ways.

Chelle: And whenever you're doing protection magic and you're you're kind of cleansing and protecting your your home area, you know, people always say, you know, sage your doorways, sage your windows. People, sage your mirrors. I mean, like that is almost as important as a doorway. Like that is a doorway. It literally is a doorway.

Laylla: It is a doorway. Yes. I know there's a lot of cultures that after someone passes, they cover all the windows and mirrors in the house.

Chelle: Yep.

Laylla: Because it's a doorway. It's a reflection. It's a reflective surface.

Chelle: They're closing that gate. Yeah, they're closing that gate because, yeah, it is a gate. It is a gateway. Just as I I do ancestor work, well, yeah, like that's like that's that's exactly, yeah. And now this time of year when the veil is thin, this is when I think that I generally do do the most ancestor work with mirrors because it is so easy because it is a portal.

Laylla: They definitely trip me out, but they can be very, very powerful tools in your magical toolkit, whether for divination, whether for spell work, whether for ritual. I mean, we've had, when we were talking to the guys, our old coven mates, John and Kevin, we talked about old Beltane rituals. And I gave up the secret that at one point, you know, digging the hole for the maypole to go in, at the bottom of it, we put a mirror and every woman would then peer down that deep hole and look at herself in the mirror, and that was freaking powerful. So powerful. So sometimes mirrors can be beautiful.

Chelle: I know that that our listeners can't see this right now, and I'll definitely get a picture of this up on Instagram. But I have this mirror that I've had, oh, jeez, I want to say it might have been my grandma's. Like it's got that like weird pearly crap on it. Kind of like, not a pocket mirror per se, but like a pocket.

Laylla: Like a compact, like a large compact.

Chelle: But the way this particular one like kind of folds into itself, it folds into itself to be a double mirror. To reflect within itself.

Laylla: Oh, that's pretty.

Chelle: And I have used this thing for so many different different things, but this is the one that I like to use for ancestor work because it belonged to one of my deceased grandparents. So, you know, it doesn't have to be some $200 mirror that you found on some magical website. It could be your grandma's old compact. And it's like nothing fancy, but yet, I don't think I would want to do any ancestor chatting in any mirror other than this one. You know what I mean?

Laylla: That's a beautiful sentiment. I love that. And and on your point of it doesn't have to be fancy, you can go get two cheap dollar store mirrors.

Chelle: Oh, yeah.

Laylla: Write your spell on your bay leaf, your parchment, or whatever, and then put it between those mirrors facing each other to amplify that energy.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: It doesn't have to be fancy. It can be super cheap.

Chelle: And again, and then if you do that and you have a different mirror that you want to reflect, you can always do the return to sender with the close.

Laylla: Tell me you did a return to sender with that mirror.

Chelle: I did do a return to sender with that mirror.

Laylla: Oh, good. Just a PSA, everyone, if you're ever given a mirror as a gift, clean that shit before you use it.

Chelle: Absolutely. But I I definitely think that if you haven't delved into the world of mirror magic, it's it's worth you taking a look-see because there's a lot of great things that can come of it. But you need to have a little bit of a little bit of stones in you because there's also a little bit of freaky-deeky with it, too.

Laylla: Yeah, yeah, I agree. I am freaked out. I tend to not do mirror magic very often. When I do do it, it's very powerful and it's great, but it's definitely not something I do on the daily because it it just freaks me out.

Chelle: Yeah, I'm a little freaked out about your school bathroom stories. I'm not going to lie. But I feel like I feel like for me, mirror magic is a good go-to for ancestor work.

Laylla: Channels to the past. For whatever reason, mirrors do seem to be excellent channels to the past and to the future for divination. They just kind of seem to tap into that for a lot of people.

Chelle: You're looking at that reflection of the past, which is pretty much exactly what ancestor work is.

Laylla: And some people think that capturing your reflection captures your soul or can capture part of your essence. So every time you go past a mirror, if that's part of your belief, that that glass, that mirror is holding part of your essence. So that mirror that was your grandmother's has a little bit of her soul in it.

Chelle: Well, and you know, and I think that's what goes along with some of the traditions that of of covering mirrors after a death because what they're really doing is they're like kind of closing that door. They're letting them pass on without having them reflect back into the present. It's it's a letting go period. It's it's kind of the closing of the door by shutting access off to that mirror, to that portal.

Laylla: Yep, and making sure that that spirit doesn't stick around in any of those surfaces, that they go where they're meant to go.

Chelle: Right, that they move on. Absolutely.

Laylla: Definitely a freaky time of year for some mirror magic, that's for sure.

Chelle: So guys, don't forget, we are still taking entries for our book giveaway. And Laylla will not let me enter, so you need to do it. So go to our website, backonthebroomstick.com, fill out the form to enter to get either, Laylla, what are the choices here again?

Laylla: Their choices are an autographed hard copy of Jamie Della's new book, "A Box of Magic," or a copy of her audiobook read by Jamie Della herself.

Chelle: That is like a super hard choice because I love listening to her talk. I don't even know what I would pick. I don't even know.

Laylla: It's a tough one.

Chelle: But I guess I guess I don't get the opportunity because you wouldn't let me enter.

Laylla: No, I I had to reject another. It doesn't matter if you change your email address, Chelle. I I know what your name is.

Chelle: Dammit. Dammit. Now, you have until, what was it, Laylla? 10/26, October 26th. Make sure you go and enter. Are we letting them enter more than once?

Laylla: Just once. Just once per person.

Chelle: All right. All right.

Laylla: And none at all if your name is Chelle.

Chelle: Dammit. Now, you got to stay tuned because we are going to announce the winner on our Samhain episode, which is going to air when, Laylla?

Laylla: October 27th.

Chelle: So you best be listening because that's when you're going to know if you won over me. Because I am going to enter again, by the way.

Laylla: And I'm still going to throw it away.

Chelle: Dammit.

Laylla: So keep entering. Maybe her email will get lost in all of your entries. I'm sure that's what she's hoping for. So send in your entries. It's right on the front page, backonthebroomstick.com. Thank you all so much for everyone who's already entered, and may the universe conspire in your favor.

Chelle: Hey, check out our newsletter. Sign up for our newsletter because we got a couple of little mirror magic things on there. I got a nice little story about how to make your own black mirror. And I like it. I think be cautious with mirror magic because it can freak you out. But I think everybody should dabble at least once in mirror magic.

Laylla: I do, too. However, I'm going to say that if you're going to use mirror magic, I like to put bindrunes and different stones around my mirror before I use it for any type of divination.

Chelle: Oh, well, yeah, protect yourself.

Laylla: You always got to protect yourself, especially when using those darn mirrors. Thank you all so much for listening to Back on the Broomstick. We hope you enjoyed this episode all about mirror magic.

Chelle: And we want you to definitely try things. If you haven't tried some of these things that we talk about, such as mirror magic, give it a go. If you got questions, shoot us an email, backonthebroomstick@gmail.com, hit us up on Instagram @backonthebroomstick, our website, backonthebroomstick.com. But you know, you don't know unless you try. Give it a go. Keep it witchy, folks.
