Laylla: Welcome to Back on the Broomstick, a modern witch's spoken word grimoire, where two witchy friends from way back are reconnecting to their pagan roots after a long period of mundanity. We're rewalking the path of the wise and trying out all the latest spells, rituals, and magical theory in today's witchcraft and pagan practices. So grab your wand and your incense, your cauldron and your crystals, and join us as we get back on the broomstick.

Laylla: Hi, and welcome to Back on the Broomstick. I'm Laylla.

Chelle: And I'm Chelle. And today we are talking about the next notch on the wheel. And what would that be?

Laylla: Beltane.

Chelle: No. Well, yeah, in the Southern Hemisphere.

Laylla: Yes. Hi, Australia, by the way.

Chelle: Hey, New Zealand. Do you know that the country that listens to us the second most is Australia, and it's Beltane there. You know, I love Beltane. We should hop on a plane and go down there.

Laylla: Honestly, this year I would much rather it be Beltane. So I'm very happy to say happy Beltane to the Southern Hemisphere.

Chelle: And to all of us up here in the Northern Hemisphere, we are celebrating Samhain.

Laylla: Whatever.

Chelle: Well, you know, I kind of like it. You know, that whole thin veil, and you can feel the spirit. I mean, I know it is equal at Beltane, but I feel like I can feel it more. I don't know, maybe it is the nights are earlier thing. I don't know, but I feel—

Laylla: Oh, yeah, the whole atmosphere lends itself to ancestor work and shadow work and inner work here in the Northern Hemisphere for Samhain.

Chelle: Whereas at Beltane, I feel like when the veil is thin, they're coming here to party. But when the veil is thin at Samhain, they're coming here to do work.

Laylla: You know, I was listening, Chelle, today to our Samhain episode from last year on our other podcast, The Stoned Witches Hour. If you want to check it out, Wheel of the Year: Samhain 2022 on The Stoned Witches Hour. And it kind of made me sad, Chelle.

Chelle: Why?

Laylla: Cuz I was happy then. I was all excited about Samhain. I was all happy about the reflection and going within, and I'm like, yeah, Samhain's not that sad. It's our beloved dead coming back. And then this year really kicked me in my ass, and I lost a lot.

Chelle: Cuz cuz then you had the reflection that you were oh so looking for. Careful what you wish for.

Laylla: Unfortunately, there was a lot of death in my family this year. My beloved dog died. My 100-year-old grandmother died shortly after turning 100. My uncle, one of my beloved uncles, got cancer and suddenly passed away very quickly this year. It's been a shit year, Chelle.

Chelle: You know, I'm not so sure that we're going into this Samhain with a much better year ahead. Crazy world we live in, just saying.

Laylla: It's uh it's definitely not a happy Samhain this year. You know, there's not a lot of, "Yay, my beloved dead." I'm going to cry a lot this Samhain. I know it.

Chelle: And you know, being here up in Salem, it is always festive this time of year, as you can imagine.

Laylla: Is festive really the adjective you'd use to describe it? I've heard you talk about this, and festive is not what you use to describe it in private.

Chelle: It is, especially if we're talking about me trying to drive to my 9-to-5 job. You know, usually people are joyous, and they're wearing costumes from like the second week of September. Nobody is like that. They're just like zombie tourists walking around. Nobody's in costume.

Laylla: Now, hold on. Backup, backup. I've spoken to you several Octobers now through the years, and one of your favorite things in Samhain is at work to sit there and watch the great window looking out onto Main Street proper and seeing all the different costumes, and you love that part.

Chelle: No, sat in the window the other day. My my whole office had lunch in that in that corner window, and we we sat there, and it was the biggest disappointment.

Laylla: Surely there's some witches all dressed to the nines snuggled up next to Bora.

Chelle: One or two, but not like not like before. Like, people are like Debbie Downer this year. I don't know.

Laylla: But there's more of them, right? Even more.

Chelle: Way more people, but they're all in street clothes. I don't get it. I don't get it. I don't get it.

Laylla: Weird. Definitely a strange year, whether it's Beltane or Samhain.

Chelle: I wonder if it has to do with all of the eclipses and all of that like planetary—

Laylla: The shit that's going on in the world that that which we shall not speak of. Yeah, it's heavy. Shit's heavy.

Chelle: Wear a costume.

Laylla: This episode comes out right before Samhain, right before the full moon, right before the lunar eclipse.

Chelle: Buckle in, folks. We're going for a ride this weekend.

Laylla: My good gracious. So, in lighter news, now that we've got everyone all depressed and wishing they were down in Australia for Beltane, we do actually have some good news to talk about.

Chelle: Guess what?

Laylla: If you stay till the end of the episode, we know who has won Jamie Della's book, a signed autograph or the audiobook voiced by Jamie herself.

Chelle: And I'm sad to say we already know that I'm not the winner.

Laylla: No, no, Chelle was disqualified. I had to throw away at least 13 of her own name that she put in there, but—

Chelle: Hey, you can't blame me for trying. Really, really.

Laylla: Don't blame you one bit. So, we will tell you at the end of this episode who the winner is, so stay tuned for that.

Chelle: So let's let's talk about Samhain a bit. Now, we I we mentioned the thinning veil. I like to, as we posted on our social media, kind of display things that make me think of my ancestors that have passed. Now, I know Laylla has a fun thing that she does, that she stole the idea from somebody, but we won't talk about that. But I think sometimes it's more about taking advantage of the thin veil than maybe focusing on other aspects, because the way I look at it is you don't have too many opportunities for that thinnest veil, so take advantage when you do. Beltane and Samhain, I mean, doesn't get thinner than that.

Laylla: And while you can talk to your beloved dead anytime of the year, you can talk to your ancestors at any point of the year, it does feel different now. It does feel more conducive to those conversations. And I don't know about you, but I have been thinking about people near and dear to me this year that have passed a lot. I've been dreaming about them. Things that they used to like are coming up unexpectedly in my life, and, you know, I'm noticing these synchronicities and these things, and and it just feels like they're very, very close.

Chelle: And this year, for some reason, I'm more prone to want to do tarot readings. And, you know, not that I don't do them, but I've never done it any different in October than any other month, whereas this year it seems a little different. I don't know, it's almost like I got the divination bug this month more so.

Laylla: I started last month, I I started a pull a day using um the Witches' Wisdom Tarot by Phyllis Curott for self-reflection. And so I've been pulling a tarot card every day and trying to meditate with that card and and work with that particular card, and it's been hard. You know, I I find myself sometimes lapsing a little bit, like I I missed a day or two here or there, and so I've been getting down on myself about that. How about you? When you are doing your your divinations this time of year, how are those working out for you?

Chelle: You know, it's almost like for as thin as the veil is supposed to be, things are a little cloudy. Messages seem garbled, like talking through static. Like, there's just something weird about this year. I don't know. I don't know. I can't even explain it.

Laylla: Well, like you said, maybe the eclipses are having something to do with the energy just being kind of all over the place.

Chelle: Instead of like talking face-to-face, it's like trying to talk to someone through a door.

Laylla: Oh.

Chelle: You get what I'm saying?

Laylla: I do, almost like the veil isn't very thin.

Chelle: Yeah. Yeah. Like, we know in our mind it is, but it's not kind of feeling it.

Laylla: I hear you.

Chelle: I know it's supposed to be, but I'm not feeling it. But that's like, you know how I love analogies. That's my best analogy. It's like instead of a face-to-face conversation, it's like talking through a door, talking to someone on the other side of the door. Harder to hear, harder to listen, you know what I mean?

Laylla: You know, that's going to happen at some times in your practice. You're going to find that rituals or spells that used to be easy for you aren't as easy. The magic doesn't feel like it's the same, or or, you know, the energy feels different or stagnant.

Chelle: Well, that's the other thing. Is it me? Is it the universe? I don't know. I don't know how to find out. I'm hoping it's not me, but yeah, it's just weird.

Laylla: So, some things you can do when that's happening, you can pull more cards. You can journal through it.

Chelle: Cleanse like a motherfucker, people.

Laylla: Right. And it's always a good time to do a cleansing, absolutely.

Chelle: Right? Of yourself, your house, your space, whatever.

Laylla: Because Samhain is the Witches' New Year, a lot of people do like to do a house cleansing now. We're about to button up our houses for the wintertime. So, cleaning your whole space, like cleaning fresh for the new year.

Chelle: Like the opposite of spring cleaning.

Laylla: Yeah, exactly. You know, do some fall cleaning, do some Samhain cleaning, and cut cords. Do it energetically while you're physically cleaning your house.

Chelle: Reprotect your space.

Laylla: Reprotect it. Use your dragon's blood, use your sage, you know, use cinnamon. Love cinnamon this time of year. Use some rosemary, and push all of that out of the space. You know, if you don't want to burn the incense, simmer pots. I'm seeing simmer pots everywhere.

Chelle: Well, honestly, I was going to say you could take those same things and make a tea out of them, just saying.

Laylla: Make a tea out of them, yeah. Roll a joint. You can turn it into a broom. I've seen a lot of beautiful herb brooms that people make, and you can use that to sweep the air in your house. Flowers, use some flowers or get some flowers like chrysanthemums or marigolds, which are a symbol of the dead this time of year. Put those in your house and let that scent permeate and and help to cleanse your space.

Chelle: And you know I like shiny things, so, you know, I got some uh crystal quartz all over the place and, you know, my rose quartz and, you know, just just good things to have around.

Laylla: Yeah, sit with your sit with your crystals. Personally, I have been neglecting my ancestor altar. So, what I have been doing lately is is doing a lot of cleansing. I've been cleaning my space, cleaning each of the items that I like to have on my altar, and unfortunately, putting on some new ones and and setting that up. And so I I'm trying to take my time with that and really set up a beautiful ancestor altar um just to kind of pay my respects and put a little offering, a food offering there every day. I'm cheating, though, and I'm using birdseed, and I'm putting it outside.

Chelle: Hey, whatever works, man. Whatever works. It's all about your intent, not whether you're using birdseed or whatever you could be using.

Laylla: There you go.

Chelle: I also wanted to mention that this, as well as Beltane, my favorite thing, bonfire festival. I love a good bonfire.

Laylla: Love bonfires.

Chelle: That that must be like the the upstate New Yorker in me. I just love a good bonfire.

Laylla: You know, the other thing to kind of tie in the whole masking and this is a good time for masking and unmasking. And I'm not necessarily talking about, you know, trick-or-treating per se. Sometimes we wear a mask that we have to take off, and sometimes we don't have a mask and should put one on. And that is always something I've kind of reflected on this time of year. Do I have a mask? Should I have a mask? You know what I mean? I don't know why I get so deep this time of year. Maybe it's the whole dark thing, but I take the whole trick-or-treating mask thing to a spiritual level of what masks should I or should I not be going into this next year with. You know, we all hide behind a mask here and there, whether friends, family, work, out in random public, wherever, at the mall. But what masks do you want to leave behind or pick up going into the new year?

Laylla: Hmm, there's a ritual for you. Right? Take some of those paper masks, make your own paper masks, and and write words on them. You know how you used to make when you were a little kid, you cut a circle, maybe in a pie plate or something, put little holes on the side and tie thread around it so you can—

Chelle: Oh my god, a paper plate. Yes.

Laylla: Yeah, so make a like a paper plate mask. You could make some literal masks out of paper plate or a piece of paper.

Chelle: Yeah, you can put feathers on it, what you know, do whatever.

Laylla: Cut eyeholes in it, a little mouth hole in it, and then write on it all the different things that that mask represents that you don't want to wear anymore, and then burn that bitch in the bonfire, you know?

Chelle: Or on the the flip of that, you could also make masks of what you want to have going into the next year. Like I said, you know, what masks are you wearing now that you want to leave behind, and what masks should you maybe be wearing coming into the new year that you should pick up on.

Laylla: Yep, and it's a good reminder that this is the third harvest. This is the new year. This is like Samhain for the Celts. This was, I don't know if it's technically the name of the month, but it's the time of year. It's like the end of the year, basically. It's their liminal time between summer and winter, the ending of one season and the beginning of another. And so liminal spaces are very, very good for, just like you said, leaving behind that which doesn't serve you and carrying forward only that which does. And bonfires are a beautiful symbolic way to get rid of things. Not everybody can have a bonfire, so if you got a little cauldron or a little candle, that will work just as well, you know? Or you can symbolically burn things. You don't have to literally burn them.

Chelle: I'll be honest with you, I like to literally burn things. Fire, fire, fire. And I mean that in the most—

Laylla: Firebug kind of way?

Chelle: Not firebug kind of way.

Laylla: No, in the most magical kind of way. Yeah.

Chelle: But I like that as a good activity, and that is a a good activity for this time of year. But I don't know, I I think this year I'm going to kind of more relish in the be in the now.

Laylla: That's a that's a good lesson to remember anytime, but definitely after the third harvest, after you've put away, the growing things are all done now. We have gotten the last little bits from the field, and you better be ready. You have to be ready. And sometimes you've done all you can do. You've learned all you can learn. You've put away the things that you need to. Now you need to just be here right now and experiencing where you're at right now. That can be really hard.

Chelle: Well, a lot of people look at Samhain like they look at, you know, like January 1st, New Year's, New Year's Eve. Let's make some resolutions. Well, whether it is January 1st or October 31st, none of us stick to these resolutions, people.

Laylla: You've never liked resolutions.

Chelle: I am the the most anti-resolution person on the planet. I think that's kind of where the whole be in the now, be cognizant of the present, don't focus too much on the future or too much on the past, you know what I mean?

Laylla: I do, and unfortunately, for me, this Samhain is going to be an awful lot focused on the past. I can't help it. There's just a lot of saying goodbye, I guess, I need to do. There's a lot of a lot of things I need to say. So, it's going to be a long night.

Chelle: Yeah, you got you got some people that are crossing that bridge, and take advantage that you still have that relationship.

Laylla: Yeah.

Chelle: Just on a different level.

Laylla: Just on a different level, and I try to remember that. I try not to be sad about it, but it's hard. It's hard sometimes not to be sad. So, I'm going to let myself be a little sad that night.

Chelle: I kind of feel like we're turning Samhain episode into like a therapy session. I feel like we're Debbie Downer.

Laylla: I told you I listen our last episode was all fun. We talked about great things, and and this episode, I'm like, fuck that, I'm sad. I'm just sad.

Chelle: Well, what are some fun things you do for Samhain? And also, you know, we've got, like you said, the eclipse, the full moon, like it's a busy weekend.

Laylla: It really is.

Chelle: What are your magical plans? Tell us all your magical plans for for this weird holiday weekend.

Laylla: My biggest magical plan is we're having a silent supper and Samhain celebration with my coven, so I'll be doing that. But for myself, I'll be doing circle in my backyard, in my ritual space, but I'll be doing a fire. I'm going to have a fire in my backyard and burn it all night long while I cry my eyes out. See, we can't get away from the sad. While I cry my eyes out all night long and uh wait till dawn. So, I'm going to be doing a ritual there and then uh keeping that going until morning. How about you?

Chelle: This is where we're going to start livening this up, folks. I am having a very non-magical Samhain this year. My plans include being one of the 400,000 people reveling in downtown Salem, Massachusetts. Throw some history in there, maybe do a ghost tour.

Laylla: That's a lot of people. It's going to be shoulder-to-shoulder pagans, isn't it?

Chelle: Really more people than really should fit in this town, but hey, I ain't judging. I am going to be reveling in the whole Samhain vibe in Witch City, USA.

Laylla: Hey, that's a better way than I'm going to spend it. I'm going to be spending it in my damp and cold backyard in front of my kind of admittedly cool backyard fireplace, and I'm going to be sad all night until dawn. And you're going to be having fun with pagans, so—

Chelle: I will send you pictures.

Laylla: I appreciate it. Awesome. Yeah, that's how I'm planning on spending it.

Chelle: And I mean, don't get me wrong, I will do my own thing at some point over the weekend in, you know, my ancestor reflection and all of that, you know, honoring the full moon and that lunar eclipse. On the 31st, I am going to be a Salem reveler.

Laylla: I've been out there before around the season, and it is just the the vibe is is a lot.

Chelle: Mayhem. Mayhem.

Laylla: It is. There's a lot of people there, and I guess it's breaking records this year.

Chelle: The nice thing is, if you ever feel alone in the world, like you're the only witch out there, come to Salem on Halloween. There'll be more witches around you than you will ever want to be close to. Shoulder-to-shoulder, we're not kidding here, people. But as much as there isn't really anything ritualistic in that, don't for a second think there's nothing magical in that.

Laylla: One of my very first times I ever saw pagans, I went out to Salem for Samhain and met my very first real-life witches. They were everywhere. They were everywhere. They were doing ritual in this big field and and walking around in their cloaks and their pointy hats, and it was just amazing to the witchling that I was that knew no one else to go to the Witch City. And and I know that no real witches died there. We all know this. It was just a persecution of people.

Chelle: But it has kind of turned into almost a safe haven.

Laylla: It really has. You know, we we want to change the idea of witchcraft as being something that you could be persecuted for. You know, we we're trying to reclaim that. So, we have very much claimed this city where such a tragedy happened to such innocent people. You know, we have claimed that as our as our Mecca, I don't want to say Mecca, as our like homeland, as our like homecoming, as our covenstead, you know, that's where we're drawn to. And it's beautiful. It's beautiful in a lot of different ways. I think it's pretty fantastic.

Chelle: And that that is the magic I will be reveling in.

Laylla: And you know, honestly, we need more of that magic and we need more of that recognition because just today, Chelle, you know, we've heard a little bit, some of you guys have probably heard this too, down in Pennsylvania, there was a pagan shop that was visited by a police officer, and they were told, they were just reminded, no one was arrested or given a ticket or anything, but this police officer thought that he needed to remind the owners of this shop that reading tarot cards or divination for money was against the law, and that if they did that, or if there were any problems with that, there would be tickets issued and they would be arrested.

Chelle: Can I just interject real quick? Um, you know what this story makes me think of?

Laylla: What's that?

Chelle: Utilizing my itchy asshole spell.

Laylla: Oh, I love that spell. Anyone doesn't know, we'll put a link in the I'll put a link in the show notes to the YouTube page where we discuss what the itchy asshole spell is. But yeah, they definitely need it. It gets worse, Chelle. It gets much worse.

Chelle: Do I have to put that on the whole town?

Laylla: Yeah, you probably do because I think in the same town, they're having what's called a Witch Walk. And what that is is for about three hours, people dress up like witches, walk around, they go to different businesses in the area. I'm not sure exactly what all goes on here, but it looks like a lot of fun. And it's being protested by the local church.

Chelle: What?

Laylla: And they're actually posting memes about burning witches.

Chelle: Okay, first of all, it is the year 2023, and this is really happening?

Laylla: It really is happening.

Chelle: In Pennsylvania?

Laylla: In Pennsylvania.

Chelle: Can I point something out about Pennsylvania? That is where people came over from Europe for religious freedom. Isn't that like against everything that Pennsylvania was founded on?

Laylla: They say that these practices are a gateway to the diabolic and invite demonic presences into one's life, family, and home.

Chelle: We have done some diabolical things, actually, on occasion. Oh, yeah.

Laylla: Yeah, so she's not entirely wrong on that one. But I I guess I have a hard time, maybe I'm naive. I'm usually the naive one, honestly. I can't really wrap my head around the fact that we're still dealing with that in 2023.

Laylla: I am absolutely completely surprised at what's going on here. I mean, it looks like just a a fun little thing. You know, I don't see anything at all here even that's necessarily actual real witches. It just looks like a fun Halloween thing to do for the community, and people are very quick to not only condemn it and say that people shouldn't go, but they're actually posting memes that are threatening. See, and you thought we were going to talk about fun stuff, didn't you?

Chelle: I did. And, you know, I don't understand the prejudicedness. I know it's out there. I get it. I don't understand it.

Laylla: Well, you live in the heart of which city where they historically used that prejudice to execute innocent people.

Chelle: And now they use it to make money. But different different conversation. But I just I feel like why is that okay? I mean, it's in the news, and yet nobody does anything about it. I guess that's a good lesson that maybe we're just not as accepted as we thought. I mean, you and I have never cared what people thought about what we believe. We we never have, honestly. But I think that makes it easier to forget that some people do suffer persecution that we're not used to.

Laylla: Some people have to worry about their children or their job or where they're living. It can be dangerous for some people to say, even now, that they're a witch or they're a pagan. And that's fucked up.

Chelle: That is fucked up.

Laylla: You know, I guess with with everything that's going on in the world, you know, religion is one of the things that really divides people.

Chelle: Well, on the bright side, let's talk about things you can do to celebrate Samhain. So, other than crying in front of a fire, I will actually be cleaving and redoing my ancestor altar. I will also be I I do like to set a place. I like to set a very elaborate table for Samhain, and leading up to Samhain, I will often leave a place setting, like a dinner place setting, your best china, your best silverware, your your fanciest wine goblet, your coolest water glass, whatever you've got, set out your most beautiful place setting, put fresh flowers there every day. And you put that there so that your dead, those that you love, whether related to you by blood or in spirit or in heart, they know that they're welcome in your home. That place setting is for them. And so I like to set that sometime in the beginning of the month, I'll set it and leave it for the whole month. And then on Samhain itself, I'll actually serve food onto that plate. Uh, and then later, I put that plate outside to offer to the elements and to the animals and to the to my beloved dead. Um, but that's that's one of the big things that I like to do ritually, in addition to my ancestor altar, is I like to set up a a place setting. And on Samhain itself, again, I serve food onto that plate for those that have gone before me.

Chelle: You know what I like to do that's kind of corny?

Laylla: What's that, Chelle?

Chelle: As you know, our listeners don't know this, but as you know, my uh my one grandmother, Halloween was like her Christmas.

Laylla: Yeah.

Chelle: Wasn't an admitted witch, we'll call it that, but like she treated Halloween like Christmas. It was her favorite time of year. She dressed up every year in costume until the year she died at 85 years old. It was always a big deal, and even when I had my kids, we always made, you know, I always made sure I took my kids to her house, even though it was close.

Laylla: She lived in the best neighborhood for for Halloween.

Chelle: She did, honestly.

Laylla: Yeah.

Chelle: My kids would agree. But one thing I do is because it was a big deal, and for her, obviously, she didn't know what Samhain was or or, you know, celebrate that or or even know anything about it. But Halloween was her thing. So, what I like to do is do a pumpkin, you know, triangle eyes, triangle nose.

Laylla: Like a traditional jack-o'-lantern.

Chelle: Right. And kind of treat it like a beacon. I don't know, beacon might not be the right word, but like.

Laylla: Well, that's exactly what they are.

Chelle: You know what I mean?

Laylla: Yeah.

Chelle: And like we would literally leave that, me and my kids would leave that damn pumpkin out out front, light it every night until it was like rotting into my front porch, basically. It was kind of like a beacon to my grandma, like a even if it wasn't, "Hey, why don't you come over and let's chat," kind of more of a celebrating you because celebrating Halloween kind of made us feel like celebrating her because it's almost like, you know, associated one and the same because she was so into it. You know, it might not cover all of my ancestors, but you know, who doesn't like to carve a good jack-o'-lantern?

Laylla: I love to.

Chelle: Have a little spiritual association behind it just kind of makes it all the more meaningful.

Laylla: Well, like you always say, it's the intent, right? So, if you carve your jack-o'-lantern, if you get a turnip or a small gourd or a pumpkin, you know, if you want to be traditional, get your turnip. But if you use that time while you're carving the pumpkin to think about your ancestor who loved Halloween or who loved pumpkin pie or just loved fall, if you carve that intent into the pumpkin and then put a candle maybe that you've charged and carved maybe with their name, you could put that in the pumpkin, and then every time you light that pumpkin, exactly like Chelle said, it becomes a beacon to that person's energy, to that soul, and they know that they're still thought of, and they know that they're still loved, and maybe they'll come give you a message.

Chelle: Like the spiritual Bat-Signal, you know what I mean? I love that. And the the other thing that it kind of is as far as the honoring ancestors thing, you know, my children are grown. We've even chatted with my son on our podcasts. We all still dress up. You know, both of my both of my adult children dress up, I dress up. That's kind of in honor of my grandma like with my grandma, you were never too old for a costume. Like like I said, you know, even in her mid-80s when she passed, never too old for a costume. So, kind of utilizing that as a celebration of her life. You see what I'm saying?

Laylla: I love that. I do. And at my house, you are never too old to get candy. If you come to my door and say, "Trick or treat," you're getting candy. I don't care. And that for me is an act of, you know, people used to give out candies or breads or things like that to appease the spirits because the idea was you didn't know this time of year who's coming to your door, if it's a demon, if it's a trickster, if it's a spirit of an ancestor, if it's the kid down the street. So, you gave everyone treats to make sure that you didn't get tricked. And so giving candy to the kids as they come can also be part of that celebration and honoring those that have come before, and also giving out of abundance helps you to receive abundance. But yeah, you come to my door on Halloween, you get candy.

Chelle: I'm going for the king-size bar. I'm coming to your house.

Laylla: Come to my house, girl. I got you covered.

Chelle: You know, that's the other thing I like. I like candy. I ain't going to lie. When I had kids, I'd take some of their candy when they went to bed. I ain't going to lie. But I always try to leave out a piece of candy in honor of my grandma. I don't know, it's just a thing, just a thing. And maybe I focus too much on one person, but that could just be because of how much it meant to her and how close and, you know, as you know, how close I was with that grandma. So, sometimes I do tend to focus on her more this time of year.

Laylla: That makes sense. And, you know, you might focus on people who have passed more recently, or there might be some years where someone comes through more strongly than others, and that's okay. You know, maybe you want to tailor your holiday around that particular person if that happens.

Chelle: To go by our general rule of thumb, do what works for you.

Laylla: Hey, we do say that, don't we?

Chelle: We do. We really do. But we mean it. We truly mean it. That's the best part. We're not just saying it.

Laylla: No, because that is really what works. Your magical brain is different than everyone else's magical brain, and some things are are pretty close to universal, but not everything is.

Chelle: In my magical brain, this Samhain might not be my magical brain next Samhain.

Laylla: That's right. Well, hey, like we said, I listened to us talking last year, and I was looking forward to it because there's I have a lot of good associations with Samhain. This year, I'm not. I heard my dog walking in the background of that episode, and I started crying and couldn't listen to the rest of it. So, the energy this year and where my intention is focused is different this year than it was last year.

Chelle: Well, I would like to say for anyone who would like to listen to a less Debbie Downer Samhain episode, check out our Samhain episode again on The Stone Witches Hour podcast. But I am going to take this wonderful energy we've got going on and turning that frown upside down. So, Laylla, I hear we might have a winner tonight.

Laylla: You, Chelle, are exactly right. Earlier today, we had the pleasure of having Jamie Della with us to help us pick this winner. And the winner is, drum roll, please.

Chelle: And it's not me, damn it.

Laylla: No, sadly, it's not you. Oh my god, and the winner is Tara A. Yay! Congratulations, Tara, last initial A. You will be getting an email shortly from Jamie Della, and you'll get to pick what you like, whether the autographed copy of A Box of Magick or the audiobook.

Chelle: You know, I'm jealous, Tara, by the way. So, we appreciate that you entered, but I'm so jealous of you right now. It's it's it's yeah, yeah, yeah. Just jealous.

Laylla: I'm going to say that I had to take out 13 different entries of Chelle's, but I did remove them all, so.

Chelle: Damn you.

Laylla: So, congratulations again, Tara.

Chelle: And we appreciate you entering. We appreciate everybody who entered. We appreciate everybody who took the time to go to the website. And, you know what? Stay tuned because we might be doing this again.

Laylla: Absolutely.

Chelle: I'm still jealous.

Laylla: Definitely thank everyone who went to our website, backonthebroomstick.com. I am overwhelmed with all the nice messages and everything that everyone said that went there. Thank you again for signing up and for And just know that we love you as much as you love us. So, you know, we can't really reach out to you to like and share you, but if you could reach out and like and share, send us your comments, send us an email. You got some thoughts, maybe a show idea? Get us on email. Laylla, what's our email?

Laylla: laylla@backonthebroomstick.com or backonthebroomstick@gmail.com.

Chelle: Tell them our Instagram.

Laylla: @backonthebroomstick.

Chelle: And what is our Facebook?

Laylla: @backonthebroomstick.

Chelle: Wow, that's pretty It seems kind of like we're back on the broomstick.

Laylla: I I had to do it so I wouldn't forget, and I'm pretty sure I won't forget that. So, check us out, send us an email, and as always, keep it witchy.

Chelle: Happy Samhain.
