Chelle: I think it's a good idea.

Laylla: It's a very good idea, Shell.

Chelle: It might not be a good idea.

Laylla: It's probably a really bad idea.

Chelle: I really want to find out, though.

Laylla: Yeah, me too.

Chelle: Okay, we're going to do this.

Laylla: Yeah, we're going to do it.

Chelle: It's witchcraft. Hey, it's 4:20 a.m. Hi and welcome to The Stoner Which is Our. On this podcast, two best friends on opposite coasts of the country get together to tell each other trueish tales of horrifying hauntings and ghoulish ghosts. But this week

Laylla: We're together still.

Chelle: We're still together in Salem, Massachusetts talking about all things witchy in spooky wooky.

Laylla: That's right. Well, your host who's high and can't remember what she's talking about, I'm Laylla.

Chelle: This is Chelle and I'm high and I'm witchy and I'm glad to be here.

Laylla: Wow, how much of that uh end game have we smoking smoked this evening?

Chelle: Well, I did a trick on you.

Laylla: What's that?

Chelle: I switched the weed and didn't tell you.

Laylla: What are we smoking now? Is this one of your like crazy high THC weeds?

Chelle: Uh no. What it is is you know, this is what makes me laugh about

Laylla: I thought it looked different.

Chelle: This new generation, they make me laugh. So apparently, call me an old stoner. I don't know. Maybe I'm the crazy one. You know how people like to get their whole eighth in like one bud?

Laylla: We do? I mean, that's fun if it happens. That's pretty nice.

Chelle: Millennial people, not us.

Laylla: Oh yeah, nice big chunky. Sure, okay.

Chelle: So I go to the store and I I will point out that the other thing about this weed I didn't tell you about and I secretly sliced snuck in for you. This ain't Happy Valley weed.

Laylla: You cheated on Happy Valley?

Chelle: Well

Laylla: Do you feel dirty?

Chelle: I do feel dirty, but in the same respect, it's also a distant family member who owns this particular store. So I cheated on I cheated on Yeah, I cheated on Happy Valley, but you know, cousins are cousins are cousins.

Laylla: Oh, love Trump's everything.

Chelle: So I'm laughing cuz they have a bud bar there.

Laylla: Love a bud bar.

Chelle: Everybody apparently likes to get like their eighths and like one or two buds. So what they do is you know how like pieces break like if you had a big old bag of buds, you know how like break it break off pieces that we is our age smokers would call like popcorn nugs.

Laylla: Popcorn nugs, yeah. Do they sell like the shake bags and the popcorn nug bags?

Chelle: They don't even sell the shake. They sell the popcorn nugs. You can get 4 g for $40. Now remember, an eighth costs you 60. 4 g for $40 because it's popcorn bud and it's not pretty.

Laylla: Wow.

Chelle: I'm like dude, but it 's so dense, you got to grind it. So if you grind up the one bud or grind up the little popcorn bud, what's the difference? And he laughed at me. He goes, you know how people are. They like what they like. And I 'm like people are stupid.

Laylla: I don't know. Call us old fashioned stoners, but yeah, I don't mind. There is a difference. Sometimes I'll notice when I'm growing, you know, the nice big dense buds at the top of the plant tend to be really rich and trichome coated. And sometimes the smaller popcorn nuggets can be slightly less slightly less THC rich.

Chelle: Why just cuz they broke off?

Laylla: No, usually they they get less light penetration if they're down at the the small ones.

Chelle: No, these are like these are like if you had one of those big buds and it like broke in half or broke up into pieces.

Laylla: Oh, so they just don't like it cuz it's not pretty.

Chelle: Correct. This is all about this is all about visual aesthetics. This isn't about quality. It's about it's not pretty enough.

Laylla: It all looks the same when I ash it onto my tray.

Chelle: But this stuff is called

Laylla: You tricked me. You ground it up and I just thought it was more of your end game.

Chelle: Well, that's the trick. Um LA Kush Cake Bakers Eighth Popcorn Nugs. That's what they call it a Bakers Eighth because it's 4 g.

Laylla: Very nice. I like it.

Chelle: So LA Kush Cake. Never heard of it, but you obviously like it cuz we couldn't even remember our intro.

Laylla: I don't even know what I'm talking about today. Well, no, that's not true. I know we're talking about Gallows Hill in Salem, Massachusetts once thought to be the site where people were hung, hence the name Gallows.

Chelle: Also another theory, myth. We're going to go with myth at the moment. Um is that Giles Corey was pressed to death upon Gallows Hill, which we'll get into some of the options of that as we as we go.

Laylla: The other place we're going to talk about is a place called Proctor's Ledge, which was newly minted as a memorial site in 2017 after some researchers got a hold of information. They they realized that the top of Gallows Hill not only was an impractical site to have hangings, but it didn't historically fit from their records. And so they used some old records and people saying some we'll get into all of that to determine the actual real spot where these unfortunate people 19 people were hung and then their bodies thrown into a ravine to be later picked up by their relatives. Um and now that there is a beautiful memorial at that site.

Chelle: And for the For those who are not familiar with the area, um also to kind of give you like a geographical visual, um Proctor's Ledge is at the bottom of Gallows Hill. So picture Gallows Hill, a hill big enough to have a couple neighborhoods on it. So it ain't like just some small little hill. Um a hill big enough to have a couple neighborhoods on it and Proctor's Ledge is at the bottom of this hill.

Laylla: Yep. So still pretty close to Gallows Hill. And we'll also at the end of the episode tell you a little bit about one of our midnight moonlight episodes out to Gallows Hill.

Chelle: What you What you really mean is we're going to tell everybody how we fucked around and found out.

Laylla: Fucked around and found out. That's exactly what we should call this episode.

Chelle: For real. Uh how's that weed treating you?

Laylla: Really good. Really good. Let's keep passing this bong.

Chelle: I didn't tell you the THC, but it 's 29.1.

Laylla: Love it. I am loving it, but it's going to you know, so if we get a little off track and a little sidetracked, it should all be fun

Chelle: It's because of Bakers bud. It's because of Bakers bud.

Laylla: So you want to Uh where did you go? What's the name of this place?

Chelle: Actually, this place is called S N A. And they have We went to their store in Amesbury. They also have a store in Um I call it Haverhill. Okay folks, if you are from Massachusetts, it is Haverhill. That 's how it's spelled. Um you can you can

Laylla: How is it out of the Massachusettians in Massachusetts in?

Chelle: They I think they call it Haverhill. They call it Haverhill, but to see it in writing, it's Haverhill. But anyway, S N A, it's in Haverhill and Amesbury.

Laylla: Nice, very nice.

Chelle: And actually, they're veteran owned, veteran run. Um and they do donate money to veterans organizations as well as they do fundraisers for veterans organizations. So they are like a total let's go veterans kind of store. So definitely a a place we're supporting.

Laylla: Fuck yeah, I love that. A place with a purpose got to be Yeah, and look, it is not your typical You know, you hate that. You hate that big old glass package.

Chelle: I do. This is just a little tiny package. I love it. It I mean, it's still plastic. It it's still killing the environment, but it isn't like that 40-lb glass container either.

Laylla: Please, I promise I won't go into a rant, but please please please please packaging people, use hemp plastics, use recyclable packaging. I know you have to wrap it in 10 different layers, but can we make it all recyclable, please? Thank you.

Chelle: I'm warning you, mr. weed manufacturing container creators. Laylla knows how to use Reddit and she's not afraid to do it. She's not afraid to use Reddit.

Laylla: That's right. I will gather the end wives and the witches against the patriarchy and all the recyclable people and we will drown you in hate mail.

Chelle: But we'll still buy your weed. We just want to uh and we just want it to be in either biodegradable or reusable or something.

Laylla: We'll still buy your weed. Yes, please. Vote with our dollars.

Chelle: So real quick before we start talking about stuff, I just want you to quick tell people how are you liking Salem?

Laylla: I absolutely love it. The chaos, it is crazy and it's just getting crazier as the month goes on. It's absolutely phenomenal. The witchy heart of this city beats strongly and I absolutely adore it. It's wonderful.

Chelle: And also the pop culture witchy thing beats strongly here, which I also quasi love as well.

Laylla: Yeah, sure. All aspects of the the the historical thing, which is a different kind of witchy, but that part I love. I love the wiccan, you know, Mecca part of it, the whole witch culture of USA coming there. I love that.

Chelle: But I still love the bewitched statue as well.

Laylla: And I love the pop culture Cough to get off. Cough to get off for sure.

Chelle: I love seeing the movie sites. I love seeing talking about Hocus Pocus. I love seeing all the people in costume, every different aspect. Whatever you come to the witch city for, there's something here for you. And it it's just so much fun. So I think our witchy count of Sanderson sisters, I was at about 27 in our last episode. And I know I've seen at least a dozen more since then. How about you? How many witchy guests you have seen? Oh my god. Holy moly. Oh my god. I would say in the last week, I have at least seen 75 Sanderson sisters. And I'm telling you people, I've watched both movies and I swear there were only three. There was only three. But you know, you come to Salem, there's more than three.

Laylla: Yes, me too. I love them all. They're so much fun. Uh so you beat me. You've definitely got me beat at this point, I would have to say. Your total far outweighs mine for Sanderson sisters. But I have since seen the movie and you just said you've seen the movie. What did you think?

Chelle: They are Um I have disappointment on two different levels. I have disappointment in the movie as a whole and I have disappointment because not anything was filmed in Salem. None of that's Salem and you're portraying it to Salem and it's not Salem. You filmed it in Rhode Island, people. So I was disappointed as a whole and I was disappointed with the location.

Laylla: What didn't you like about the movie? What disappointed you?

Chelle: It felt like the craft all over again. It felt like the craft with Bet Midler and way too way too musical. I felt there was like five times as many songs that were so irrelevant. The first movie, there were songs, but they were relevant. And there were songs here that weren't relevant. I felt like it was like Hocus meets The Craft with a quasi Rocky Horror twist.

Laylla: I loved it. I went into it knowing it hoping it was going to be campy and goofy and fun. And it was all of those things. And I cried. It was emotional and cute. I have to say I I

Chelle: Wait, where did you cry? I need to know this. People, we need to know where Laylla cried.

Laylla: Okay, spoiler alert. If you have not seen Hocus Pocus 2, skip ahead like a minute. We'll tell you when it's safe to come back. So in Hocus Pocus 2, when Winifred decides to do that spell to get all the power, she's going to get all the magic and she skips past the warning and she gets all the power, but then she has to pay the price and her sisters all go up in sparkles and they say goodbye and goodbye. And it was And And then she was sad and she had done the whole thing just to be with her sisters. And when she was told that the spell to reunite them was actually going to have her go to them, she was cool with it because she just wanted to be back with her sisters. I legit cried.

Chelle: But didn't didn't you feel a little bit of the craft? Be honest.

Laylla: A little. Just be you know, the three girls and the high school friends and they had some sort of falling out. That was very crafty.

Chelle: We're going to make her do the witch stuff with us, whether she likes it or not.

Laylla: Like a little. There I don't feel like there was anything where no one wanted to do it though.

Chelle: I just I don't know. And like what You didn't feel like it was too musically?

Laylla: I fully knew the first movie is not the greatest movie in the world. It just isn't. I adore Hocus Pocus for what it is, but movie genius it is not. And And so I And so I fully expected going into the second one, I didn't expect that it was going to be by some miracle

Chelle: A cinematic masterpiece.

Laylla: Exactly, exactly. I I wanted it to kind of match the tone of the first one. I wanted it to be campy and goofy and childlike and and it really met all of those expectations and I just adored it. And the goofiness, you know, the slapping Mary to make her smile go to the other side of her face. I have a little factoid for that actually.

Chelle: Ooh, do tell.

Laylla: In the movie, Kathy Najimy who plays Mary, she does this little crooked thing with her mouth.

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: And it in the first movie, it's always on the right side, I believe. But she was having a hard time when they came back to this movie doing her mouth the same way. She couldn't do it on that side. She could very easily do it on the on the left side.

Chelle: Uh-huh.

Laylla: So in the beginning of the movie, Winifred slaps Mary by accident during one of them the music scenes that And her crooked mouth goes to the other side because of the slap. And it just kind of stays that way the rest of the movie.

Chelle: I do want to say Sarah Jessica Parker is fucking gorgeous.

Laylla: Oh my gosh, they all look fabulous. I thought she was great. And I died and I still love the part

Chelle: She was riding a Swiffer.

Laylla: And her Swiffer was great with the bubbles coming out the back and the two broom uh broomies. The two broomies.

Chelle: Oh, what are they called? I can't think of what they're really called.

Laylla: Roombas.

Chelle: Yeah, Roomba Roomba.

Laylla: We have a Roomba and we got like a sticker to put on the top because they do have personalities. I swear we talk to it like it's a pet.

Chelle: Don't let it eat your salt circle.

Laylla: So I just thought it was super funny when they said that it they had little personalities in the movie. That was great. But they all looked fabulous. But the part where they they go into the one house to look for the daughter of the mayor

Chelle: The daughter of yeah.

Laylla: And Winifred says, spread out. And so Sarah starts like doing a split, like spreading her arms wide and doing a split. And the other two sisters just stare at her. I love that part. I I because I live in Salem now, I butt her that none of it was filmed in Salem.

Chelle: Yeah, that seems a little silly. I mean, it is right there. Why not? And I mean, we all know why not. They built sets across the border right down the road in Rhode Island where is I 'm sure we can guess we're both from New York State. We know the drill. It's cheaper.

Laylla: It's cheaper.

Chelle: Taxes and licensing. So I would imagine I am no pro here, but my my educated guesses, it was probably cheaper for them to film it in Rhode Island and not here.

Laylla: I wonder if it was also possibly safer due to not being such a public and and well-traveled location. They would have had to shut down quite a few streets.

Chelle: They did that for Hocus Pocus without an issue.

Laylla: Yeah, I don't know.

Chelle: I think it was down I honestly I think it it it it it has to be a cost thing.

Laylla: Oh, absolutely. Absolutely.

Chelle: So so you know, I'm a little I 'm a little hurt over that. Like at least in the first one, maybe it wasn't all filmed here. But like the house on Ocean Avenue and you know, Ropes Mansion, you know, you could be like these At least in the film. Whereas in the second movie, there is no location in Salem where you can go that was in that film. Zero zip bummer. They could have at least done some of the commons, you know, filmed some part of the commons. Right. Right. Right. And that's what I'm saying. You know, the first one, the whole movie wasn't here, but things were here. And in this one, there 's no things is here.

Laylla: Yeah. That's true.

Chelle: And I find that to be a bummer.

Laylla: Well, you know, I guess we'll just have to be on opposite sides. Maybe our listeners can vote on if you have seen Hocus Pocus 2, what did you think? Did you love it? Did you hate it? Were you you know, mixed feelings? What are your favorite parts?

Chelle: Do you agree with Shell or do you agree with Laylla? Let's Let's just cut to the chase here.

Laylla: That's right. Does it get a thumbs up or a thumbs down? Laylla gives it a strong thumbs up. I'll give it 3.5 witch hats out of five.

Chelle: I give it no witch hats out of five.

Laylla: Oh, I'm going to change mine to four witch hats out of five then.

Chelle: All right people, we need your votes. Back me up here. To kind of circle back.

Laylla: Yes.

Chelle: What do we want to tell these folks about first? What we what what are experiences and some stuff about Proctor's Ledge or some experiences and some history of Gallows Hill? Where are we taking this, friend?

Laylla: Well, let's start with the history of Gallows Hill. Why is it called Gallows Hill? What is Gallows Hill?

Chelle: Do you want to real quick tell people what a Gallows is first of all?

Laylla: Ooh, sure. Gallows is another way of saying uh a hanging place, a thing that you can hang people on. Basically, it's a huge either a tree or a scaffolding that's built that you can hang a rope from. And underneath it would either be like a wagon or a ladder or an actual platform that would be built for people to stand on. And they would take that rope that was then hung over a tree and put it around the accused neck. And they would either then kick the ladder away from their feet or drive the wagon away from their feet or they would open a door in the platform and they would fall through. And that would cause them to hang to their death.

Chelle: One thing geographically about Gallows Hill is um in modern day cuz as we've talked about in the past, Salem of old in Salem of modern day are not the same. Um back in 1692, Salem encompassed parts of what's modern day Peabody and Danvers. But modern day Salem, Gallows Hill is I'd pretty much say probably the highest point in the city proper.

Laylla: In old time Salem, 325 some odd years ago, 330 ish years ago.

Chelle: You're good at math.

Laylla: Something. Gallows Hill was close enough to town to be seen and there was a main road that went by it, either Essex Street or Boston Street. I'm not sure. But there was a main road that went past it.

Chelle: Boston Street.

Laylla: Boston Street. And it could be seen from the town, but it wasn't so close that um you know, that there were houses or anything right up next to it. So Gallows Hill is very steep on one side and hard to kind of get to the top. But that was for a long time thought to be the place where people had been hung. And in in Massachusetts, they did believe they believe they hung them from trees that were there and did not build any type of uh longstanding gallows. It was just a rope over a tree and a ladder from the the history that I could find.

Chelle: Now one of the things I I showed you when we were up there that I just wanted to mention to people, remember that I don't know what it was, like maybe 8-9 ft long by like 6 ft wide, those two rocks one on top of each other.

Laylla: Yes.

Chelle: People say that that is the site where Giles Corey was pressed to death. And you may think that that's true because there's these two big huge slabs one on top of each other. And you would think to yourself, oh yeah, they could have put a body in between them. Let's be real, folks. There's like what did we count, Laylla? Like six different sites where they claim that Giles Corey was pressed to death.

Laylla: Yeah.

Chelle: Laylla and I are not historians here, folks. We are not archaeologists. And we don't know legit where he was actually pressed to death because there's so many theories. But Gallows Hill is one of the rumored sites. But I am almost thinking nowadays I don't maybe like when I first came to Salem, I might have believed it and I did kind of think that that was it. But now that I've been here a while and I've heard about some of the other sites and have seen geographically where some of the other sites are, I actually think that he was pressed to death at a different location, which I will mention in our next episode when we talk about some of our final random locations we visited.

Laylla: Yeah, I I agree. And And we'll talk about it again more a little bit later. But I also think that that Corey was pressed to death somewhere in the vicinity of the town.

Chelle: He's your dude too, man. You love this guy.

Laylla: Yeah, I do. I do. We'll talk about him later, but I think it just made more sense that probably somewhere in the vicinity of the sheriff's house or the courthouse or something because he refused to put in a plea. And that's why they did it. So I don't think they would cart him all the way outside of town to to do the pressing. They wanted him to change his mind and put in a plea. So it makes more sense. We'll talk about that in next episode. Other than Giles Corey who was pressed to death somewhere in the vicinity of the town, most likely, which is one of you know, five or six different locations, right?

Chelle: A theory.

Laylla: Gallows Hill was long thought to be the location. Although someone in 1921 actually had a theory that it was somewhere else, that it was at the bottom of that hill actually.

Chelle: Now why did they have that theory is my question? Because with a name like Gallows Hill, it kind of self-explanatory. So where did this person come up with this theory and why?

Laylla: Uh a couple different reasons. One of the biggest ones is again getting to the top of Gallows Hill would have been very difficult. And they know from written accounts that the accused were taken from the jail, put into like an ox cart.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: And then they traveled in that cart to the place where they were hung. At the time, there would have been no practical way to get an ox cart easily up that hill.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: And so just the ge geography of it didn't make any sense. Also they had written letters from people and written testimony of one of the accused who talked about seeing people who were hung there as they came into town. And also people who talked about being in their homes who could see the hangings taking place from their house. And so what they did was they recreated the cities. They looked at old historical documents. Uh I even saw an old postcard that showed Gallows Hill. And they used this evidence to kind of determine where that spot was.

Chelle: No, I do have I do have something I want to mention and it's part of the reason why people thought that and maybe still do think that. Remember how when I I Remember I took you up to the park where the top park, which we'll talk about what we did up there in a few. And then about halfway down, we saw those baseball fields and then Proctor's Ledge was at the bottom. So remember those baseball fields about halfway down.

Laylla: Yeah. Mhm.

Chelle: When they were making those fields, I don't know when it was. I want to say it was back in like the 60s. Um they actually found bone fragments in the area all around there that would suggest that people It kind of went with the whole Gallows Hill thing, you know.

Laylla: Right, because one of the things with Gallows Hill is after they hung these people, they weren't allowed They said it was um it was evil to touch them, that their bodies were still evil.

Chelle: They weren't allowed a proper burial.

Laylla: And they weren't allowed. So it's in the records, it's said that they were just dropped into a ditch at the at the bottom of the gallows and their bodies were left there. So that would kind of fit with what you're saying.

Chelle: And it And it would because before that obviously before that ballpark, that was just kind of a side hill. And I could see him just tossed him over the side. So there is that. But what could technically counter that story even more is that this is Massachusetts, folks. We are not the first people that were here. And for all we know, that actually could have been an Indian burial ground or something of that nature a few hundred years ago. And that's could be what the bone fragments are. But there are skeletal findings um halfway up Gallows Hill.

Laylla: I know that there's no skeletal findings around Proctor's Ledge. And the reason for that is the dirt there is only about 3 ft deep, which wouldn't have been deep enough to permit any burials.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: And also there are written records of people who talked about um particularly Rebecca Nurse's um son or nephew. Uh there is a written account of him taking his boat rode his boat up the river to right near where her body was. Um which is another account that placed the location at Proctor's Ledge because

Chelle: Cuz there's a waterway within about 100 yd.

Laylla: That's exactly right. And it wouldn't have been accessible at the top of Gallows Hill. But there are several accounts where the families talked about most likely these people their bodies were recovered by the families under cover of night. They would go in and take the bodies away. Um and there are several accounts where people spoke of doing that. And they're probably buried in unmarked graves.

Chelle: Uh you know, familial property would be my guess because they weren't allowed a cemetery burial. So my guess would be familial property.

Laylla: Exactly. Yeah, none of the accused are buried in any that we know of.

Chelle: None of the accused have marked graves in any of the local old cemeteries. So when we talk about burying point um in our a couple episodes ago, you know, the big draw there is some of the judges are there, the sheriff, things of that nature. But none of the actual accused witches are there because they were not allowed. So yeah, my guess is familial lands.

Laylla: Lovely. Thank you for this lovely hit by the way of What was this called again?

Chelle: Uh I got to look at it again. LA Kush Cake.

Laylla: Thank you. Since I was getting tongue tied, I figured I'd get even more high and see if that fixes it.

Chelle: Uh yeah, it will. I promise. Take a few more hits. It'll work like a charm.

Laylla: One of the other quotes was um eyewitness testimony from uh some of the court records actually in 1692. A woman named Rebecca Eames who was one of the accused had been being taken to the court in a wagon. And she was traveling along Boston Road, which ran just by the execution site. And while she was in court for her examination, they asked her if she had witnessed the execution that had happened earlier that morning. And she said that she was at the house below the hill and that she saw some folks at the execution. Now they determined that the house below the hill that she's referring to was probably the McCarter house, which stood at 19 Boston Street. From looking at the old records, they could determine that she would not have been able to see the top of Gallows Hill from there, but she would have had a very clear view of Proctor's Ledge.

Chelle: Right. And that would make sense because I mean we were just on Boston Street a half hour ago.

Laylla: Right.

Chelle: You know, I mean that would make sense because Boston Street is about what was it 100 yards from the Proctor's Ledge Memorial?

Laylla: Now this memorial is is much like the memorial that we saw earlier this

Chelle: Old Burying Point similar, similar.

Laylla: Very similar. It is another about waist high rock wall. It has a tree in the center. It's about it's a crescent shaped and it has the names in order of all the people that were killed during the Salem Witch hysteria.

Chelle: And I didn't get the most fabulous pictures on the planet people, but I will post a couple on Instagram.

Laylla: We did go at night. It's a very hard to get to spot. It's right next to a Walgreens or across the street.

Chelle: Yeah. The problem it's behind Walgreens, but the problem is is that it's a one way street and you can't go up it from Boston Street, so you got to loop around Gallows Hill and come down it or park at Walgreens and walk over.

Laylla: Definitely worth it. I loved being able to see both memorials. And this one was nice because it was private. It was just us there. And it was really nice to kind of be there and and to

Chelle: It's not downtown.

Laylla: No. And honestly stepping into that crescent shape, I know it's a new memorial, but

Chelle: There's more of a vibe there than what you get at the one at Old Burying Point in my opinion.

Laylla: It is either right on the spot or right near the spot.

Chelle: Yeah, I'm close to it.

Laylla: Yeah. And and there's there's the ditch there. I mean all the the signs point to this, so they're really sure that they've got the correct location.

Chelle: But the nice thing is you sound like you're getting sad, but I I do want to I did want to just kind of mention like you said in 2017 was when the memorial was created. The city of Salem through the Community Preservation Act grant spat 174,000 to create that memorial. That was kind of an an initiative by the then mayor. We're not putting out any political politicians names. We're just going to say the mayor at the time. You know, they they got this Community Preservation Act grant specifically to do this. The mayor was quoted at the time saying that they wanted to do this because Salem is constantly looking to the lessons of its past, whether it's through the formation of our no place for hate committee or our landmarks with non-discrimination ordinances or through the Salem Award Foundation. The lessons we learned from our history directly inform the actions we make today. So that was kind of her thought process. Don't forget what's happened in the past because we make the same freaking mistakes over and over. History is one big circle of the same shit, different day.

Laylla: Yep. Quickly, I want to just say that the plans for the site were developed by landscape architect Martha Lion and that not just that grant, not just that $174,000 grant, but there was a lot of small donations just from local people and local organizations because everyone really felt that this was something that should happen. And there's a single oak tree. They said that the the tree the the young tree that we saw that was planted there is a it's an oak tree and they planted it there as a symbol of endurance and dignity.

Chelle: Oh, nice. We did talk about this in a a couple episodes back, well maybe like 10 or 15 episodes back, but I also wanted to point out that in the last year the last witch was exonerated. So they have now basically said that none of the witches were guilty, but it did take over 300 years for this very last one to get her pardon basically. That did happen, which was spearheaded by a group of eighth graders by the way.

Laylla: Wow. Yeah, I remember we talked about that in one of our previous episodes that it's wonderful that it happened, but sad that it took so long. I know that right after they canceled the court of Oye and Terminer, people started putting in pleas to pardon these people. And and some were granted early and some obviously took a very long time.

Chelle: It depended on if you had family to fight for you to be honest. And that was what happened with this person that was recently pardoned in the last year is there was nobody to fight for her, so nobody did until this eighth grade class came along and made it a project.

Laylla: That makes a lot of sense. It makes total sense. Now both of these sites are rumored to be the sites of numerous hauntings. I'm going to give you a quote. This is a good one from Nathaniel Hawthorne. Alice Doane's Appeal in 1835 he wrote this was the field where superstition won her darkest triumph, the high place where our fathers set up their shame to the mournful gaze of generations far remote. The dust of martyrs was beneath our feet. We stood on Gallows Hill.

Chelle: Wow.

Laylla: Right?

Chelle: That's pretty intense.

Laylla: Right? Go on Nathaniel Hawthorne. It's it's no wonder he is a best selling author even still.

Chelle: Right?

Laylla: Tim McGuire, he owns the Salem Night Tour.

Chelle: Uh-huh.

Laylla: He says that Gallows Hill has been the site of multiple suicides and also sightings of shadow people, orbs. People that go there say that they hear eerie sounds. People talk about feeling ghostly fingers go up their spine.

Chelle: One thing I've heard from some of the people I've met in the time I've lived here uh neighborhood wise and and from my sweet darling love as well that's lived here his whole life on Gallows Hill is that that 's also sometimes in the summertime in the woods around there homeless folks will live in the woods. So aside from suicides, unfortunately there's um like ODs and things of that nature. And like I said, for all we know prior to Salem being settled, there could be Native American spirits chilling around here as well.

Laylla: Sure. There there were other people that lived here before for sure. And I guess this could be explained by we'd have to say that some of this could definitely be explained if there are homeless people living in the area. Some of this could be you know, because they talk about uh shrieks or thumping, sometimes knocking that they'll hear. And people do say they see full body ghosts.

Chelle: But I also I also will say, you know, as you've seen it's a very densely populated location. Salem is very densely populated, but that backside of Gallows Hill as you saw is very wooded. And currently right now in the year 2022, we have this weird coyote issue around here. A lot of the coyotes are in those woods and they're in the woods behind the Witchcraft Elementary School. And I've been outside at night partaking in a cigarette. I'm bad. I know everybody hates nicotine. Here we are. And you can actually hear them in those woods. So some of that could have been explained. They might have thought they heard shrieking and it was really coyotes.

Laylla: Yep. So I couldn't find a lot of ghost stories or anything, mostly stuff that could probably be explained a few other ways. But definitely people say that they it's undeniable that they feel something when they go to that area.

Chelle: Now I want to tell you just briefly about a couple of of things I have felt when I have gone there. And then and then you and I are going to talk about what what we have thought.

Laylla: Okay.

Chelle: I've been up there multiple times. I I usually try to go after dark or at dusk. It's just my way. You know, my my boyfriend would tell me stories about how he used to sled down the hill, so I'm like, oh, go show me the hill. Let's wait till it gets dark. Remind Have you ever

Laylla: Boyfriend used to sled down Gallows Hill?

Chelle: Yeah, in a toboggan.

Laylla: That sounds awfully morbid.

Chelle: I don't know what to tell you. It was a thing It's actually a steep hill. It's a it's a

Laylla: It is. From what I saw, it looks like a great hill to go sledding down.

Chelle: But if you get off the trail, you hit a tree and pull a Sonny Bono and it's no good. I don't feel alone up there ever. But you know, have you ever been in the woods in in potentially on a hill? I don't know if you've experienced this. And in it I wasn't I mean I smoke weed folks. We know this, but like I was not like tripping or anything. Have you ever seen the ground breathe?

Laylla: When I was tripping?

Chelle: No. I was stone cold dead ass sober and I'm telling you fucking ground breathes on Gallows Hill when you're walking down that steep slope, the toboggan hill. The ground I I Laylla, I am I'm telling you. I'm telling

Laylla: That sounds scary.

Chelle: He saw it too. He saw it too. It wasn't just me like like have you seen ever seen that on TV?

Laylla: Mhm.

Chelle: Like that shit happens up there in real life. And I didn't see anything, but I I I was being not necessarily in a bad way, but I was being watched. I was not alone. You're not alone up there.

Laylla: That's a common that's a common feeling even when people are in an area.

Chelle: Whether the the the 19 whether the the 19 people are not, I can't tell you. But I you're not alone up there man.

Laylla: Yeah, I agree. I definitely felt that way in the past when I've been there. And then just recently right near that full moon when you and I went up there at midnight because we're idiots.

Chelle: Fuck around and find out. But I swear to God that's the only time in my life I've ever with my own eyes other than on TV seen the ground breathe. And let me tell you, you know how I am. I always want to fuck around, but then I'm so scared when I find out. I freak.

Laylla: That's also true.

Chelle: It is. That threw me. That threw me because I had never seen that in person before and I've never I mean in upstate New York how there's woods freaking damn everywhere. I've never seen that until Gallows Hill.

Laylla: Wow. That's kind of trippy. That really trippy.

Chelle: I don't think that would have anything to do with with the 19 people, but I'm just saying there's something up with that land, whether it has to do with those 19 people or not.

Laylla: I think that's the common consensus is that area, that whole hill, the whole entire thing, Proctor's Ledge included, Gallows Hill, all of it has a vibe. It definitely has a spooky, eerie, there's something here vibe. Maybe that's why they chose that spot. They may have thought they chose it because it was just outside of town. But I think something in that hill drew them to there. And that's why they decided to kill those innocent people there. I think that hill is spooky.

Chelle: Especially when you look at the old maps of Salem and how it did encompass parts of Peabody and Danvers. Salem was a huge ass place back then. Why out of all places are they coming up here on the top of that hill?

Laylla: Right? Exactly. Exactly.

Chelle: Cuz we drove up the road and that was steep and that's a modern day road that's paved. Can you imagine either walking up that or doing a horse and carriage up that on a dirt road?

Laylla: Right, right. Which is even getting to Proctor's Ledge going on Boston Street would have been a little difficult. But you know, I guess if they

Chelle: And a hike.

Laylla: And a hike. So if they if they had wanted to make it a a spectacle

Chelle: That would have been the place. That would not have been the place to make it a spectacle, I don't think.

Laylla: Well, I guess if you know people driving by as they drove their carriages by it, you know, you'd have to drive right by it to get into to get into town kind of. I don't know. But I do feel that something about that hill is off.

Chelle: Agreed. I just don't think Giles Corey was pressed at the top. That's odd.

Laylla: I agree. I completely agree. It's a it's a silly place to kind of drag somebody to to press them to death. There's closer places, I'm sure.

Chelle: Especially thinking you're going to hopefully drag him back to jail. Didn't happen, but that was

Laylla: Right, or take him to court. So after we did our little tours and we walked around in the daylight, we took that little break and we we decided because we're very high witches that we needed to make a Ouija board.

Chelle: Not not go not use one that we had or that I had here. Yeah, no, we make one. That's how we do. You got cardboard, you got a Sharpie. Here we are.

Laylla: That's how we do. Yeah. We're making one.

Chelle: And don't worry folks, I'm going to put a picture of the one we made up on it damn.

Laylla: And then we proceeded to bind the ever living magic out of it.

Chelle: I don't think I've protected something so much in the last 10 years to be honest.

Laylla: Yeah, me either. I kind of knew as we were putting on like the black salt and the sea salt and the sage from your garden and it was pretty sure we might be going a little overboard, but you know, I I kind of felt like considering where we were going to go with it. Maybe we needed it.

Chelle: And we knew full well that we probably were opening a Pandora's box, but we were like, let's just make our own Ouija board and go to Gallows Hill. Isn't that what people do?

Laylla: So that's exactly what we did. We made ourselves a Ouija board. We made a beautiful little planchette and we saged and smudged and salted that bitch. And then we waited till midnight.

Chelle: Off we went.

Laylla: Off we went to Gallows Hill to a nice little spot right in the moonlight. And we set up our Ouija board. We set up some recording devices to catch some EMPs and

Chelle: There'll be pictures on Instagram people. You need to check it out. Stone Ledge Hour Instagram. Go look at the pictures cuz they're good.

Laylla: Big time. Big time. Now we set up in the moonlight. We get our EVP recordings going and we place our fingers on the planchette. And I immediately started feeling tingles. We didn't get a lot of movement. It almost felt like reluctant sludgy. Sludgy. Yeah, that's exactly right. It was It was like they were trying to come through from a long way away or or foggy or something.

Chelle: Or like it Like if there was like a heavy magnet.

Laylla: Yeah, yeah, it did feel like that.

Chelle: It was It was sludgy. Sludgy is the only word I can think of.

Laylla: Sludgy is an excellent way to put it. So we tried a little bit there and it was really sludgy. So then we kind of packed up. We moved to a different spot and things started to come through a little clearer, still kind of sludgy.

Chelle: But where we moved to, where we started off, we were kind of hidden behind trees. And where we moved to like the full moon was shining right on the Ouija board. Like what did we expect here people?

Laylla: We're in a circle of moonlight and this young man starts coming through and it's it it's sludgy still, but we're starting to get some answers and get some, you know, get some movement out of this planchette. And I don't know about you, but every once in a while I was getting like chills right up the hand that was touching that planchette.

Chelle: And I I remember there was at one right in the beginning we both kind of lifted off the planchette at the same time and it still moved to the next letter and neither of us were touching it.

Laylla: I remember that.

Chelle: Just saying nobody was touching the planchette and I'm like, uh did we just fuck up bad?

Laylla: No. And we both put our hands like right back on it.

Chelle: But it did feel like though after I don't know what what what would you say maybe five minutes or so it felt like we lost them, but then it almost felt like something someone, I shouldn't say something that's rude, someone else came.

Laylla: There was after it was it was like a sudden disconnect, not when we took our hands off and put them back, but shortly after that it was almost like a sudden disconnect.

Chelle: Like if someone hung up the phone on you.

Laylla: Exactly. And like mid sentence it felt like. And then there was like a a blank space for a little bit like nothing much was happening, the sludgy feeling was gone. And then I felt like someone else started to come through. And I don't know what it just felt different.

Chelle: Almost like I don't want to say it kind of nudged the first one out, but kind of nudged the first one out like, hey, I'm the one who wants to do the talking here and move along here pal, move along.

Laylla: Right, right. It felt definitely more powerful, stronger. I'm not sure, but uh we'll place some clips.

Chelle: And it felt like the first one it felt like the first one was more like a I don't know how to say it, but quote unquote like a younger spirit. And the second one felt like more like a older spirit.

Laylla: I agree. I agree. I felt like we made contact with three distinct spirits. The first was a woman and the second was like a younger man. And the third I think was an older man.

Chelle: I thought it was an older I thought that I thought the other one was an older man absolutely.

Laylla: Yeah, I thought it was an older man, but I wasn't 100% sure, so that yeah, I would I would definitely go with that.

Chelle: Cuz the vibe was kind of like grumpy pissed off old man was kind of the vibe I got.

Laylla: But he's the one that almost made the energy before him end. It felt like he ended that energy. Like he's the one that hung up the phone and then gathered himself. Yeah.

Chelle: Right. You're done here. Yeah, you're done here. Move along. Yeah. Oh yeah. Oh absolutely. I feel like

Laylla: But then he was almost like cranky that we had disturbed him or that we were there and he was upset with us. Yeah, he was mad at us for being there.

Chelle: Or almost like if you call somebody late at night, he was mad that he was mad we called his house and the phone rang kind of thing. You know,

Laylla: There you go. Yeah, it was kind of like that.

Chelle: like the kid he answered the phone in the beginning and wanted to chat and then dad got woken up and was like, what the fuck you calling us for at this time of night? Kind of annoyance.

Laylla: Yeah.

Chelle: Cuz I very much felt an annoy like you could tell this was an annoyed spirit.

Laylla: I agree. Yeah, absolutely. And then you know, that one too went away. And I And I could only feel sludginess after that. I kind of have to think that maybe that sludginess

Chelle: My fault. My fault.

Laylla: be the effect of a couple witches throwing one too many protecting things.

Chelle: Protection. Now it's better

Laylla: It basically wrapped that Ouija board in magical wool and then expected spirits to get through.

Chelle: I suppose it's better to have done too much than not enough. Think of it that way, but I think we did more than what we would have wanted because we really we were looking for some hardcore and we protected ourselves too much.

Laylla: Agreed. I agree. And I think maybe that site being not I mean there's there's something there for sure and we definitely felt it, but I think it we could have gone to some different spots and maybe that we're a little more or maybe we could have been a little less paranoid.

Chelle: But also folks, we do want to just make note that the park at Gallows Hill is closed at dusk. Do not listen to us. Please do not trespass after dusk.

Laylla: Us doing a Ouija board uh

Chelle: work related investigation.

Laylla: work related. There you go. We had a work related pass officer, I swear.

Chelle: I mean if we were there during the daytime, we could have bounced around all over, but you know, we don't want to be all like trespassing and stuff.

Laylla: Yeah, we only did a little of that. Maybe some minor rule breaking. We bent the rules. We didn't break them, just bent them.

Chelle: That's magic. It's bending shit.

Laylla: But it was a lot of fun and we still have the Ouija board and maybe we'll have to like encase it in something and ship it off to uh

Chelle: The witch board guy. Yeah.

Laylla: And the witch board museum.

Chelle: I definitely just wanted You know, I know people get all all weirded out about Ouija boards and stuff. And And I do want to absolutely point out to folks that yes, we do feel like we connected with a couple of spirits, but no, we do not feel like they had any connection to the Salem Witch Trials whatsoever.

Laylla: No, none whatsoever. One of them felt like it was probably very old, could have been a couple hundred years old possibly, but I don't feel any witchiness. No, none whatsoever.

Chelle: No connection. Nobody would rather come back to you folks and tell you that it was all that we just connected with all the witches more than Laylla and I would, but that's just what happened.

Laylla: I wanted to speak to Giles man.

Chelle: You wanted to know where he was really pressed.

Laylla: Right? Come on Corey, you could come back and told me something.

Chelle: But unfortunately the reality is we we just weren't pulling anybody related to the Witch Trials here. And And honestly in your time here, I think that's been a constant. We've never really felt any of those. We've felt stuff, but not necessarily stuff related to the witch.

Laylla: Bits and pieces here and there. You know, bits and pieces they're definitely there. The echoes are there very much so.

Chelle: Yeah. Right. But I think the hauntings is all around Salem aren't necessarily witch related. And there's hauntings folks, do not get me wrong and they're everywhere up and down every street. But are they all witch trial related? That's yet to be seen folks.

Laylla: No. I do have to say when we left, one of the things we made sure to do was to close our circle and we had been reading or that we had been using the Ouija board in and kind of thanked the land and and let go. And I have to say I had turned off the recording. I must have turned it back on again, but I have a snippet as we're leaving where I turned around and kind of did that severing spell. And

Chelle: Oh yeah. Oh.

Laylla: Interestingly enough, it cut off.

Chelle: Don't tell me that. Oh my god, I'm going to be freaked out. Creepy cool. Creepy cool.

Laylla: It's just like a it's just like a really short clip, 22 seconds. And I don't remember having turned on the recording. I don't remember turning off the recording, but it recorded just before that and it kind of cut off when he said all ties are severed. Severed is severed.

Chelle: Wow.

Laylla: Fun. But yeah, so we did. We made sure to close the circle, made sure to cut all ties with any entities that came in. We highly recommend doing that if you ever get a chance to do your own fuck around and find out with a Ouija board in a haunted location.

Chelle: You're going to fuck around with a finder out at least cast the circle and do shit proper.

Laylla: Yeah, yeah, that works. So but it was a lot of fun. I mean going up to Gallows Hill in the moonlight and putting our homemade Ouija board down and being able to do circle and and kind of look for spirits with you again was so much fun.

Chelle: We had a blast. I mean every single thing we've done in Salem so far has been rock solid awesome.

Laylla: So much fun. And there's so much more I want to do. It's so

Chelle: I know.

Laylla: I don't have enough time. I'm going to have to come back.

Chelle: We are going to do one more episode where we're going to talk about some random places that we've visited, maybe not as high profile, but some really cool other places that we've visited. And that is what we're going to wrap up our Salem visit with you in our month in October and in our our awesome Halloween October special in Salem.

Laylla: Yeah, right before our Sown episode.

Chelle: Right before our Sown episode, which will wrap it up. So we've got one more episode together in Salem.

Laylla: We're going to talk about all our favorite haunted places.

Chelle: And we may if folks are good put up a picture of you and I using the Ouija board on Instagram.

Laylla: Yeah. If you're lucky, we'll put up a cool picture.

Chelle: If you're good. If you're all good little boys and girls.

Laylla: That's right. Oh my goodness. We have so many cool pictures and stuff to put up. I just I had such a good time. And we'll have to put some stuff up from the Boobash and thank Bora and

Chelle: Bora, you know, Bora rocks. I went to the Boobash. I met a couple of listeners at the Boobash. Hey guys. And let me tell you.

Laylla: I'm going to smoke a bowl. Hold on. I got to smoke a bowl for our listeners because how cool that you met some listeners and some fans at the Boobash.

Chelle: I did. I actually got a picture with Bora. There's buds for you. I just the Boobash was great for Samuel Boobash. I recommend it next year to to anyone coming to Salem when the Boobash is happening. I didn't win the costume contest, but I'm not bitter. I'm not bitter.

Laylla: There's buds for you. I'm bitter. I'm bitter. I'm bitter on your behalf.

Chelle: But you know what? Bora, you put on a hell of a party and I can't wait to do it again.

Laylla: I had to live vicariously because I did not have tickets, but your pictures were fabulous and I watched on Instagram from the Salem Black Hat Society. And it was almost so much fun.

Chelle: It was. It was. And I know we have a couple of listeners that were there with me and they'll tell you it was a freaking Boobash.

Laylla: Send us your pictures please. I want to see you in all your costumed glory. It looked like such a great witchy time. I wanted to be there so badly.

Chelle: Send your pictures the stone witches hour at gmail.com. And I'll post someone in them.

Laylla: Laylla wants to see them.

Chelle: It was a good time. It was a good time, but this town's This town's getting folks.

Laylla: All the events are great. It is. I I can see I've lived in touristy places myself and so I know as a local you're probably tired of it. It as beautiful and as wonderful and I'm sure you look forward to it every year and you get tired of it.

Chelle: But I still got to get pulled back every day.

Laylla: Exactly. You still have to kind of live your life. So as much as I kind of envy you, I also understand the whole, you know, tourism gets tiring. You get It gets That's old. It gets really old after a while. But people seem to be pretty good. For the most part, people are so kind and so accommodating and and the crowds aren't that bad.

Chelle: They love all the People just show up in the the craziest stuff. I love it. I love it. I saw an alien today.

Laylla: Nice. I was going to ask you what's what's your favorite costume you've seen out your window at work this week?

Chelle: A guy wearing a speedo where the straps of the speedo instead of around his waist they're up around his shoulders. Just saying.

Laylla: Oh wow. Like the like the Borat. So he's wearing the speedo like Borat like a Borat bathing suit? That's great.

Chelle: Yeah. A lot of a lot of crow people this year. I love it. I saw a crow queen. I saw a crow guy. Love it. Crows are in this year. The crows are in.

Laylla: I love that. Got to love the Corvids. I love crows. How cool. What neat costumes. That's fun.

Chelle: Salem. One more episode in Salem and then that wraps it up for us.

Laylla: That's right. Episode 40 Oh my god.

Chelle: Oh my god, 40.

Laylla: 40 will be our last Salem, Massachusetts episode before our Salem episode. And then after that I'm not sure where we're going. I'll be back in California. I have a California local place that I'm getting ready in the works to talk about. But uh

Chelle: Oh my god. We're going to have to come up with episodes that aren't Salem related.

Laylla: Right. There's still so much more. We'll have to do Salem again next year and go to even more places.

Chelle: If any of our listeners have any things they want us to talk about or any ideas or suggestions, shoot us an email. The stonewitches hour at gmail.com and we'll see if we can do your story.

Laylla: Yeah, tell us about your favorite local legends, your favorite ghost stories. You know, what have you heard?

Chelle: Cryptids. I love cryptids. Tell me about your cryptids.

Laylla: Is your town famous for a cryptid or some sort of you know, true crime? Let us know.

Chelle: No. All of our listeners have one thing on their mind right now. I have a suggestion for Laylla and all of our listeners will agree. If anybody has watched the new Netflix series The Watcher OMG. Laylla, you got to do The Watcher. Tell us the story.

Laylla: I had a I already had The Watcher in the works.

Chelle: Yes.

Laylla: But then they scooped me, man. Everybody's seen the Everybody's seen the documentary.

Chelle: No, you're going to you're going to better tell us the real story. You're going to have to tell us the real story of of The Watcher.

Laylla: It's pretty creepy. I'll definitely get on that. And also The Dahmer uh

Chelle: That guy was nuts. I didn't realize how crazy he was.

Laylla: Yeah, that's a sad one. I I haven't gotten into that one because that one makes they all make me sad. But that one there were so many opportunities where they could have caught him and they just didn't listen to these kids. But anyway, a lot of cool net you know, Netflix and other channels have especially this time of year if you're into ghoulish tales and creepy crimes, this is a good time of year for all of that. You can kind of binge it to your heart's content. I will admit I haven't watched Dahmer and I don't know if I can.

Chelle: Well, and I have to admit not a fan of Hocus Pocus 2, folks.

Laylla: Thumbs up. It was awesome. I loved it. Loved it.

Chelle: All right, let's we need to let these people get back to their lives for today.

Laylla: Yeah, and I got to maybe I need some more weed or something. I'm pretty high. My my eyes are all closing over here.

Chelle: Yeah. All right, so we need to we need to pack a couple more bongs, folks. So we got to get out of here. We will see you next week for episode 40. Be there because why not? We're here.

Laylla: We'll see you next week for episode 40. Stay high. Stay happy.

Chelle: Do you really think that two seasoned witches should be making a homemade Ouija board out of cardboard and going to Gallows Hill with it tonight on a full moon? Well, here we are and we're going to do it and we're going to see. But as you can see, got the sea salt, sea salt. Got some fresh plucked sage, fresh plucked sage. Got our quartz crystal on there. So I don't know. Let's see what happens.

Laylla: It's a good idea, Sha. I think it's a good idea.

Chelle: It's a very good idea, Sha.

Laylla: It might not be a good idea.

Chelle: It's probably a really bad idea.

Laylla: I really want to find out though.

Chelle: Yeah, me too.

Laylla: Okay, we're going to do this.

Chelle: Yeah, we going to do it.

Laylla: So tonight we're going to Gallows Hill, which is what like less than a mile from where we're sitting right now.

Chelle: Oh absolutely about a quarter of a mile away.

Laylla: A quarter of a mile. Okay. Quarter of a mile from where we're sitting right now.

Chelle: You know what seems like a good idea to have a Ouija board. So how this kind of came about was I have a really beautiful one here and we don't really want to get it dirty or yucky or types of the neighborhood with it. And somehow that led to making a handmade Ouija board.

Laylla: Out of that's a good idea.

Chelle: Out of a piece of cardboard and a Sharpie marker. And it is beautiful and we will post a picture of it because

Laylla: It's it's precious. We should keep it for a very long time.

Chelle: If we make it through the night.

Laylla: Yes. We should it should have an honored place on your altar.

Chelle: It's going to have to.

Laylla: Resin. We could do it in resin and like keep it forever.

Chelle: That would actually be super cool.

Laylla: That actually would be super cool. If we get anything out of it tonight, we're encasing that bitch in resin.

Chelle: Now here's here's the thing. Okay. Okay.

Laylla: Ouija swear. All right. Encasing it in resin.

Chelle: If we get anything from it.

Laylla: Now this we don't recommend this for the faint of heart or to the newly witch person. This is not for a baby witch. Like

Chelle: Actually we don't recommend this for anyone.

Laylla: For anybody. We usually highly recommend against this on our podcast. And several times in the process of coming up with this idea.

Chelle: We've talked about how this is a bad idea.

Laylla: A very bad idea.

Chelle: As we still move forward.

Laylla: As we continue to do it. But this is what happens when you get Sha and Laylla in the same location.

Chelle: We are in the same location.

Laylla: We are in the same location and that's why we're fucking around and finding out.

Chelle: Finding out. Yeah. Yeah. There's going to be a lot of that going on tonight. So some of our preparations are we have some fresh sage from Shell's garden.

Laylla: We do.

Chelle: We have beautiful sea salt that was procured by Shell's glorious love.

Laylla: Yeah.

Chelle: That is also gracing our board and a beautiful crystal from back in our coven days.

Laylla: Yes. And we also do have some black salt on there because well you never can be too cautious.

Chelle: That's right. That's right. Shell was talking in one of our most recent podcasts about making salt. This isn't one that she made, but it is pretty easy to make and making colored salts can really enhance your spellwork.

Laylla: No. No. So then we you know, we were talking about some different stuff and I was getting scared. I was scaring myself and I think we might we don't want to overprotect this so that we get nothing. So I think we're going to go with what we've got. Just our little sage and salt and quartz crystal vibe going on. And then I think if shit gets real, I have faith in our magical abilities that we can handle it without any other stuff.

Chelle: I do as well. It it might be the full moon. We might be in Salem. We might be going to Gallows Hill with a homemade Ouija board. But we've got each other.

Laylla: Yeah. Yeah. I I I have faith. I have faith. So we're actually going to post some videos of this um at some point. So um

Chelle: Absolutely. We will probably post some snippets here soon. Okay, beginning recording for EVP session for Gallows Hill on the full moon. Chelle and I in Salem. So I'm going to set this phone down. We're going to record if anybody's here, you can talk into this microphone. Say anything you want. Answer our questions. Let us know what's going on.

Speaker 1: Okay, you ready?

Chelle: I'm ready.
