Welcome to Back on the Broomstick, a modern witches' spoken word grimoire, where two witchy friends from way back are reconnecting to their pagan roots after a long period of mundanity. We're rewalking the path of the wise and trying out all the latest spells, rituals, and magical theory in today's witchcraft and pagan practices. So grab your wand and your incense, your cauldron and your crystals, and join us as we get back on the broomstick.

Laylla: Hi, and welcome to episode 44 of Back on the Broomstick. This is our last episode of December and the last episode of 2023. This, of course, has us thinking about New Year's Eve and New Year's Eve resolutions. And what's a resolution if not a wish? Or maybe it's manifestation. In this episode, we'll talk to you all about the difference between manifestation and wishes and why Chelle hates New Year's Eve resolutions. Wishing all of you a very magical 2024, I'm Laylla.

Chelle: And I'm Chelle, and I am like super excited because this is one of those fun ones where we have vastly different opinions, I think.

Laylla: A little bit. I wouldn't say so vastly. I guess we're already having a difference of opinion, right? Let's start out and say that right now we are recording after Yule, after Christmas, and before the calendar New Year.

Chelle: I want to let everybody know, I know what Laylla was about to say. She's going to talk about how this is the forgotten week of the year. So, for everybody out there who has commented on Instagram, sent us a message, I am not ignoring you, folks. It has been a whirlwind of a Yule-a-Christmakas week, two weeks, however long it's been. Feels like it's been a year. I will get back to you. Give me a minute.

Laylla: Chelle is taking on that full Scandinavian Norse tradition of doing no work between Yule and New Year's in that 12 days of Yule.

Chelle: Well, you know, life happens. But we are here in this liminal space, and I love that everybody talks about what kind of a weird vibe this time of year has.

Laylla: Why is it the forgotten week? You know, most traditions talk about Santa Claus paying attention to you from the first of the year until Christmas. So, who's paying attention between Christmas and New Year's, you know? And Yule happens, and there's the 12 days of Yule that ends on the morning of the first, and that's just filled with festivities and hanging out and not doing work. It's just kind of a weird vibe.

Chelle: Well, and if you kind of look at the mundane world, not a lot of people work this week. The kids aren't in school. You know, it's holiday break. It is just a recovering from peopling. Recovering from peopling.

Laylla: Oh, that's a good way to put it. And it's gearing up to the calendar New Year, New Year's Eve, celebrated the world over.

Chelle: What does everybody do on New Year's Eve?

Laylla: Party, party!

Chelle: Well, and...

Laylla: Drink a lot!

Chelle: And...

Laylla: Kiss at midnight!

Chelle: What kind of promises do they make to themselves?

Laylla: Okay, I knew you were going there. Yes, they make New Year's Eve resolutions.

Chelle: Now, for all of you folks out there who make New Year's resolutions, do not take any of my further comments personally.

Laylla: How do you feel about New Year's resolutions, Chelle?

Chelle: I feel like they're just a bunch of bullshit. You know how people say, "Are you trying to convince me or yourself?" Well, a resolution is you definitely trying to convince yourself because everyone around you knows it's a bunch of bullshit.

Laylla: Well, you're not that far off. The statistics for people actually keeping their New Year's resolutions are pretty bad. Almost 25% of them go on to quit them in the first week. And about 43% of them quit their resolutions by the end of January. And Fisher College says that by the end of January, a full 43% of people have quit them. And according to Time Magazine, as many as 80% quit by the end of February. Only 8% of people manage to keep their New Year's resolutions for the full year. Now, the history of New Year's resolutions goes back really, really far. The Farmers' Almanac actually talks about New Year's resolutions going back to ancient Babylon.

Chelle: What the hell were they, what?

Laylla: Now, their New Year's was in the spring. A lot of older cultures had their New Year's either around Samhain or in the spring, but usually at the change of a season, which makes a lot of sense. Our New Year's in January, there's nothing really there to mark a change.

Chelle: Not true. Not true. Um, the sun has been reborn, and it is the first week of the new light, and we are celebrating the new light, the new growth, the new year. I love winter.

Laylla: I stand corrected. No, you're exactly right. That's a very good point. But as far as like a change in spring, it's not as big or noticeable as a change. So, sometimes people would celebrate the New Year's when new life started in the spring. And so, the Babylonians, their promises, their resolutions, usually involved the return of farm equipment that they had borrowed.

Chelle: I gotcha.

Laylla: So, it was promises related to that.

Chelle: Maybe this was like a '80s or '90s thing. But when I hear someone say that their New Year's resolution is to lose weight and not eat chips and cookies, bullshit, because we're all going to see you in line at Costco with your chips and cookies.

Laylla: And there's a reason for that. And I think the reason gets kind of into what a lot of people think of as a promise or manifestation or some type of spell is usually really just a wish. Or like you say, a lie that they're telling themselves. Most of these New Year's resolutions don't have a lot of power behind them, and so they're doomed to fizzle out.

Chelle: But a resolution is similar to a lot of these manifestation things I'm seeing online. But there is a difference because, you see, I look at resolutions as like a wish or a prayer or, "I wish I could lose weight. I just don't want to do anything to make it happen," or, "I wish I was rich. I just don't want to do anything to make it happen." Whereas, on the opposite end, if you're doing spell work or meditation or whatever is a manifesting ritual or a manifesting spell, there's a give and take. You can't just wish for something and just be like, "I wish I had this," and not put any backing into it, or any energy into it, or any effort into it, and expect something out of it.

Laylla: Your resolution or your wish is the first step of your spell, which is to state your intention.

Chelle: It isn't the only step, though.

Laylla: Exactly. Your first step is to clarify exactly what it is you're asking for, what you want. And so, that would be your resolution or your statement. But just like Chelle said, you then have to back it up with other things as well. I mean, New Year's Eve has a lot of power. We've talked in the past about spell work and manifestation needing to move power, both magical energy and mundane energy, in order to effect your will.

Chelle: And I actually look at, this is weird and I'm a weirdo and we all know this, but I look at New Year's Eve almost as a, I don't want to say as like a holiday or like a sacred day, but because of the society I live in and, and you know, the things that have been ingrained in me by the good old TV, it is almost like a starting anew, clean slate. You know, January 1st, give it a go again. You know, I'm going to try to get my shit together this year. You know, whatever the case may be, but it's kind of like an automatic fresh start for everybody. And those manifestations on New Year's Eve, if you put effort into them, you can kind of reap what you sow as you go. But I don't know, I feel that it is, you know how like with Samhain, the veil is thin, you can communicate with your ancestors. I look at New Year's as a time where, you know, you can kind of reset, clean slate, start anew, put the past behind you, put this last year to rest, next chapter. You know what I mean?

Laylla: I think you're exactly right. I totally agree with you. I mean, the name of January itself comes from the Roman god Janus, who was the two-faced god. He looked behind and he looked ahead. And that's exactly what January does. You look behind and put the year behind you and put it to bed, put it to rest. And yet, you're at the same time looking forward. You're at that cusp, that liminal space between one year and the next. And it's given power because millions of people around the world acknowledge and recognize that space, that day from December 31st to January 1st. It's recognized as an ending and a beginning everywhere. That thought form, that idea, is powered by all the beliefs of all the people around us. And, you know, you'd be foolish to not try to tap into that energy to create change. That's very, very powerful. So, yeah, just like you said, I completely agree. It is a holiday that has been given strength and purpose because so many people believe in it.

Chelle: That is why I absolutely love to and insist my sweet love give me a kiss right at the stroke of midnight, like millions of people across the world. Almost like the first thing I'm doing in the New Year is kissing you. You know, "Ooh, how romantic." But there's almost like a, a spell work behind that. You know what I mean?

Laylla: Let's take a little tangent here, actually, and talk about some of the different traditions that people do for January 1st, like kissing, you know, your sweet love at midnight to kind of seal that relationship and to bring sweetness into that relationship. Or having a toast with your friends to, again, celebrate that relationship. A lot of people start money jars. They'll get money jars ready for the first of the year for that next following year, with the idea of having that power of that changeover fuel their spell. People will open a back door to let the old year out and open a front door to let the new year in.

Chelle: And I remember, maybe not so magical, you know, until we were separated by distance, we actually, you and I spent, I don't know, 18 New Year's Eves together. Many, many. New Year's Eve. We actually would kiss our loves at midnight and then, you know, pack and pass. Yes. Smoke out the old, smoke in the new, you know.

Laylla: There was a time when whatever I did, I was going to spend New Year's with you, no matter what we were doing, come hell or high water, I was going to make, and that, because that was a tradition. That's what we did. And starting the year together just kind of helps strengthen that bond.

Chelle: Right. It just was kind of second nature that we ended and started together every year.

Laylla: Exactly. And so, any spell that you do at the beginning of the month, you know, that "rabbit, rabbit, rabbit" at the beginning, or blowing cinnamon...

Chelle: Cinnamon blow. Yeah.

Laylla: ...into your front door. If you're not familiar with the cinnamon blow, you take either a little bit of ground cinnamon in your palm, or if you're worried that it might harm your pets or cause any problems with people in the house, you can also take a cinnamon stick and light it like a stick of incense. And then you blow that, either the smoke or the cinnamon itself, from outside your home across the front door threshold into your home with the idea of bringing in abundance and prosperity to your home. Now, take what Laylla said and take it to heart because it is, it is very true and very important. But, side story. So, I have two precious kitty cats that I love, so I try not to do the powder. And if I do, I'm very cautious about how I do it. I've actually done it out the window just for the sake of my cats. So, a month or two ago, I was like, "You know what? I'm just going to light this cinnamon stick on fire." Okay, first of all, people, that shit don't want to light. And when it does, it smells like a house fire. It doesn't even smell like cinnamon when that shit's burning. And at one point, I was so pissed off, I actually just threw the cinnamon stick out the door and called it good for my cinnamon out the door thing. So, you know, whether you're blowing it out the door in dust or if you're just taking that fucking cinnamon stick and giving it a chuck out your front door, it works. My intention was there.

Laylla: Absolutely. I've, I've seen many a person chuck the cinnamon stick into their front door and then pick it up afterwards. That's where I was at that day. Another one, if you don't want to blow anything into your house, is those cinnamon brooms that are super popular. If you have a cinnamon broom that's not super decorative, you can just sweep into your house. But again, you're, you're bringing in the new. The idea is you, the night before, sweep out the old, the morning of, sweep in the new. But these are beginning of the month things that are so much more powerful because they're done on the first of the year, not just the first of the month, but the first day of the first month of the year.

Chelle: Right, right.

Laylla: It makes it that much more potent and powerful.

Chelle: Now, my plan, it could involve throwing it out the window again. I don't know. I make no promises. But I actually, instead of doing it on the first this year, I was planning on doing it on the second because I am a numbers person and correlation in numbers, and I want to do it on 1-2-3-4. Where's the 3-4 come from? I made up the 3, and the 4 is because it's '24. Okay. Why are you fucking with my idea here?

Laylla: I don't know. I don't know what it is.

Chelle: It sounded good in my head until I said it out loud, and I'm like, "Wait, where is that 3 coming from?"

Laylla: Well, I do know that the last day of this year is 1-2-3-1-2-3. Maybe I'll do it that day. 12-31-23 is 1-2-3-1-2-3. So, that would be a very cool day to do it because that's kind of a neat number if you're into numerology.

Chelle: See, I knew there was some numerology shit going on this month.

Laylla: I know for our try-it next month, we're going to be, on the first, you're going to be working on the cinnamon blow of a couple different types, maybe different herbs or something different. So, we'll talk about that. And I'm going to be working on the money bowl spell for the first of the year. So...

Chelle: And, and not to really give anything away too much prior, but, you know, like I said, I, I have two lovely fur babies here, and I have to be very cautious with what I do with the cinnamon.

Laylla: Yes.

Chelle: So, my, my try-it is going to be more of a, we'll call it Chelle's incense version because I, I will come up with a concoction that I burn as opposed to...

Laylla: Yeah, the pet-safe cinnamon blow version.

Chelle: Right, right.

Laylla: Awesome.

Chelle: We all have animals that we love as much as our children, and I am not putting my babies at risk.

Laylla: I think one of the big problems Chelle has with New Year's resolutions goes back to one of the problems that we have with manifestation, like the popular idea of manifestation, that whole lucky girl syndrome that you see on some social media sites, and the idea that your thoughts alone create your reality. This can get very toxic, and it's a very, it's a very watered-down idea of what manifestation actually is. And to be honest...

Chelle: It's a dangerous rabbit hole.

Laylla: It is. And I blame the book "The Secret".

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: I mean, this book came out in, what was it, 2006. It was written by Rhonda Byrne. And the idea is based on the law of attraction. And she...

Chelle: I mean, I liked it, and I liked the movie. Don't get me wrong.

Laylla: Yeah. I mean, there's some law of attraction videos on YouTube I still watch because they're so uplifting and give me such a positive mental vibe. But there's a big old fat-ass, but there, you know, just like anything in life, you don't get something for nothing.

Chelle: Exactly. And sometimes the idea that you can just...

Laylla: Will it to be.

Chelle: Right. Or if bad things happen to you, it's because you thought it. That's fucked up. That's victim blaming. That's terrible. And, and there are some of us, I mean, I've talked before about having ADHD, and, you know, my thoughts go in weird places sometimes. And I have to rein them in, you know. It's not, our thoughts don't always define us. Our thoughts don't define us. And, you know, there are some people who have anxiety or negative thought patterns, and telling them that their thought creates their own negative reality is messed up, and it can cause problems.

Chelle: But also, in the same respect, our thoughts alone are not going to change the energy out in the universe. You have to put out energy to change energy. And if you ain't putting out shit, you ain't getting shit.

Laylla: Exactly. And we have talked before that our belief system is that spell work is about manipulating energy in order to get things in the real world. In order for your spells, your rituals to work, you have to put in energy. Part of it is going to be mental, magical energy. And on New Year's Eve, you can tap into all that energy that's flying around because everybody's putting it into that idea of newness. And you can direct that energy. It's going to be very powerful. But it's only going to get you so far.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: I don't know any witch who's powerful enough to drop 10 pounds just because she made a resolution on New Year's, unless they put in the energy in the real world as well.

Chelle: If that was the case, I'd be one skinny-ass bitch right now.

Laylla: Exactly. I would have won the lottery multiple times over. You know, putting your energy into it through spell work is one step, making that resolution, doing the spell, getting your energy into alignment because the good part of this manifestation is that your thoughts can help. You know, once you get your thoughts in alignment with what you want, you start seeing opportunities. You start seeing these things come a little easier. You know, that's what it will do for you. And then...

Chelle: And you still have to seize those opportunities, and you still have to act on things. And like they say, no, hand it to you on a silver platter shit. It don't work that way.

Laylla: The universe or the gods or, or the energy that you're putting out are going to make these things, these opportunities come to you. But if you don't open that door and step through it, it's never really going to happen. There's mundane and magical all mixed in together.

Chelle: But in the same respect, even if you do put in the energy and the intention, if you don't necessarily get that wish or whatever you are trying to manifest, if it doesn't come to fruition, that does not mean you are cursed either, okay?

Laylla: Absolutely. A very good point. Very good point.

Chelle: Because I also think there's a sense out there that if I wish for it hard enough, or if I do what TikTok tells me to do to manifest it hard enough, I will get it. And if I don't, there's something wrong with me. That is not the case. The universe also has just as much will as we do, and sometimes our will and the universe's will don't jibe.

Laylla: That's very true, too. And you kind of have to find that balance between is this spell really raising the energy that I want it to, or is it taking me down a rabbit hole that I don't need to go? Is it causing more anxiety or more stress, or is it helping me to feel more in tune with myself and more in tune with the universe and where I'm going and with my path?

Chelle: And I also think if you put in time and energy, whether it be through spell work or meditation or what have you, you can also kind of see if what you're trying to manifest or wish for or have as a resolution, whatever the case may be, how realistic is that? You know, is it, "Next year, I'm never going to drink soda ever again. You know me. How realistic is that for me? Like, not at all.

Laylla: It would require a lot of work.

Chelle: But if it was like, you know, maybe if I only drink half as much soda, that's a more realistic thing to try to manifest. Or, you know, I want a new job, but for that new job, I need to get my resume in order, I need to have interview clothing. You know, there are steps I need to take to get that job I want to manifest. Or, you know, I want to move into a new home. Okay, well, are you working on your credit? You know, there there's there's mundane back work to some of this magic.

Laylla: Magic will help make these opportunities happen, and they'll help to get you in alignment with having this happen, but there's also that factor that you mentioned just a little bit ago that sometimes life just fucking happens. Sometimes bad things happen to good people, no matter how much magic you work, no matter how much energy you raise. Sometimes bad guys have good things happen to them, no matter how much you've hexed them or how much they don't deserve it.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: What do they say like, uh, life's not fair, the universe works in weird and fucked up ways? I don't know, but we can't always control the outcome, and it's not always going to be what we've worked towards.

Chelle: And I think there's a misconception with with some of this stuff that you see with the manifestation that if I just close my eyes tight enough and wish hard enough, it should just happen. And kind of like resolutions, if I lie to myself enough, I'll believe it. And we've lied to ourselves, come on. You've made resolutions that were complete bullshit. I've made resolutions that were complete bullshit. We knew it was bullshit when we were saying it.

Laylla: So, that being said, what can we do to make resolutions or to do spellwork that isn't just bullshit, that is actually going to at least get us partway?

Chelle: Well, like I said just a minute ago, I think part of it is figuring out what you want to manifest and then taking time to either do some spellwork or or meditation or whatever and, you know, really dig deep is is what you're trying to manifest or wish for realistic.

Laylla: Write down your idea first, and a lot of times you'll hear people tell you, and it's very good advice, that you should write your resolution or your your wish or your spell as if you already have it. Write it in present tense. Don't say, "I want a new job." Say, "I am happy and secure and successful in my new job, in my new position."

Chelle: I'm a rich bitch.

Laylla: Exactly. Say it as if you have it. "I am in a loving, secure relationship." So, use positive wording that talks as if you have it right now. That's the first step, is to define what you want and to state it in positive and present terms.

Chelle: But in my personal opinion, then you need to take a step back and say, "Is this attainable? Is this realistically attainable, or am I just leading myself down to some shit show heartache?"

Laylla: Exactly, exactly. You know, what type of concrete steps in the real world, besides the magical world, can you take to achieve this?

Chelle: This is where I like to kind of intertwine magical and mundane ways to get to that end. You know, do a little bit of your mundane work and then your magical work. Like, they go hand in hand. One hand washes the other. You know, it's like yin and yang. You can't do one without the other.

Laylla: And if you're doing your spellwork and that helps get you into a positive place and gets you in alignment with what you're looking for, you know, research has shown that these feelings of positivity can be part of the rest of your life. They kind of bleed over into everything, and and it helps you to see the positive in things. Psychologist Tal Ben-Shahar says, "When you think of all you can be grateful for, when you take stock, you feel better. When you feel better, you become more open to and are more likely to notice and pursue positive experiences. You then have more to be grateful for, which then, in turn, improves the quality of your life, and so on." So, their point with that is that if you can use magic and spellwork to help shift your mindset towards a certain thing, it's kind of like the blue car theory, where if you set your mind to, "I'm going to buy a blue car," suddenly you start seeing it everywhere. Spellwork can kind of put your mind and your psyche magically into a space where you are more likely to see opportunities, you're more likely to see relationships or friendships or abundance or new things coming to you, whatever it is that you asked for in your spellwork. That's the whole idea, is to change your mindset and to get it in alignment with what you're looking for. So, first you make your statement, you make sure that it's positive and in the now, and then when you start to raise your energy and put it towards that, part of that is like what Chelle said, is what are the steps to get there? What steps do I need to take to get from here to there?

Chelle: On the magical side of it, you know, like attracts like. You know, they say, not to make the comparison, but they say like with folks that have a cancer diagnosis, that sometimes their attitude plays a part in their outcome. You know, if they have a really positive attitude, they have a higher success rate than if they have a very negative attitude about their situation.

Laylla: The placebo effect is is an actual, measurable, real thing. If people think they were given something that will help them, even if it's just a placebo, it does help them.

Chelle: And the attitude, you know, if you have a positive attitude about it, like attracts like, and if you have a negative attitude, like attracts like, you know?

Laylla: One of the things that I learned is that magic flows where attention goes.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: So, if your attention is on a certain area, that's where your magical energy is going to be going. You know, it's not perfect, and you don't have to think about it all the time, and if you think something negative about it, it's not really going to affect it, so don't try to worry about that too much. But if you can focus your attention on something, like the blue car theory, you're going to start seeing those opportunities and those things come to you. And that's the spellwork working with the universe and working with the energies around you to help kind of get you into the path that you're asking for with your spell or with your resolution.

Chelle: I mean, for your manifestation to kind of come to fruition, you know, you have to have the belief, the intention, and the action. And without all three, it ain't going to happen. You know, you have to have those three pieces of the puzzle.

Laylla: And it doesn't have to be at New Year's Eve. I mean, any time that you want to make a change, and you're using and you're using this type of spell, it's going to be the same thing. Create a goal, make it measurable and actionable, create steps to get to it, and then do your spellwork to get everything in the universe aligned with you and your goal as much as you can on a magical level, and then go for it on a mundane level. I always get so frustrated. I'm in a bunch of different groups on a few different social media boards, and you always see every single day someone will say, "I'm having XYZ issue, and I want a spell for it. I don't want to hear anything mundane." And it bothers me. I know why they say it, but—

Chelle: It's not freaking Harry Potter, man.

Laylla: How can you do a spell and not do anything mundane along with it? That's That's to me, that doesn't make any sense. They go hand in hand.

Chelle: You know, sometimes the mundane creeps into your magical life whether you like it or not.

Laylla: My mundane life is my magical life. I mean, I I guess maybe that's part of it, because I don't separate the two.

Chelle: You know, you don't know your mundane life crash in your magical life until, I don't know if you remember this one, Laylla, but about 25 years ago, I had a little baby boy, and we were at my apartment doing a ritual, and he comes running out, and I had to change his diaper in the middle of our ritual. That's life. But I do have a a real quick manifestation story that I didn't even think it was a manifestation ritual, but it basically was. You know, we've talked about a couple of different times how I felt like I had a hard time fitting in or finding the magical community here in Salem.

Laylla: Yes.

Chelle: And this last Beltane, on Beltane, I happened to have to work in the office that day. And as we've also discussed, I like to spend my lunchtime shopping at local stores, spending money on crazy witchy goods.

Laylla: On Main Street in Salem, Massachusetts. Actually, Essex Street, but yes.

Chelle: Actually, Essex Street, but yes. And I remember you and I had been talking, and I was getting kind of a little frustrated because I felt like it would be easier than it was. And, you know, we had talked about different ways I could try to infiltrate the witchy community here, and none of them were working out. On Beltane, I purposefully went into a store, and I was like, "I'm going to buy something to try to spark that manifestation." Buy something magical to try to spark that magic.

Laylla: Okay.

Chelle: I ended up going into a store, I shall not name currently, and I bought, I'm showing this to Laylla, y'all can't see it, but it is a It's a silver ring that has a crescent moon with a amethyst stone in the middle of the crescent.

Laylla: My birthstone.

Chelle: I like moons, love amethyst, and I was like, "You know, that's a cute little pinky ring. I'm getting that, and I'm going to wear that and see if I can manifest myself a damn witchy group." So, that was Beltane, beginning of May. And when did you find me, the coven that I'm now currently in? What was that, July?

Laylla: Yeah, not too long after.

Chelle: I mean, not that it was like the next day.

Laylla: And it usually isn't.

Chelle: No. And I had worn it, actually I've worn it every day since Beltane, but I was kind of wearing it with that, "I'm looking for you, and I need you to look for me." And then, what, 2 months later, you were like, "Hey, Chelle, I found this thing."

Laylla: Right, Mandragora Magica.

Chelle: Right. So, my intention wasn't maybe to find a coven per se, that was the end result, but it was to kind of find myself in the witchy community as as opposed to being an outsider looking in. And sure shit, that thing worked. When I bought this ring on Beltane, I bought it with the intention of, "Use this as a bat signal. Bring me a group, or bring the group to me, or me to the group," and it worked.

Laylla: And as a lot of you know, metals and stones hold energy very, very well. So, Chelle, by setting this intention, this idea in her mind as she went hunting for this ring, is a spell in and of itself. And as we all know, Chelle is very much a seat of her pants, you know, by the bristles of her broom—

Chelle: Oh, hell yeah.

Laylla: —just do the magic on the fly kind of witch. So, she set this intention, the spell in motion, and then when she found the ring, she felt the energy of the ring was in alignment with what she wanted. And by paying money, money is another form of physical energy. You know, your work, your labor goes into creating that money, which holds it in value for you. So, it's a form of magical energy. She then exchanged that money for the ring and then wore it—

Chelle: Energy for energy.

Laylla: Energy for energy, which is again charging that ring with her intention of finding a magical community. And she didn't narrow it too much by just saying coven or high priestess. She said magical community, which gives magic and the universe and your deities a little more wiggle room—

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: —to give you what you're asking for, right? And then by wearing that ring, whenever she wore that ring, it would reinforce this magical energy. And it just took a couple months, and it happened. It's perfect.

Chelle: It was kind of like, you know, I I do computer work and typing is part of my job, and, you know, I'd be typing away on the old lappy-tappy, and I'd see that little sparkly in the light of of the ring and the stone, and it'd be almost like, "Where's my people?" You know what I mean?

Laylla: Exactly.

Chelle: I mean, I I wasn't pounding the pavement every day looking for a group, by any means, but, you know, I'd look here and there, and then I kind of started bitching to you a little more, and you looked, and you were like, "Oh, here it is. Send them an email." And, you know me, antisocial, I'm like, "Oh, I'm scared." And I was like, "You know, the ring and the whole thing, just send the email, Chelle." And I did, and it was fabulous and worked out.

Laylla: Exactly. And you had looked for a couple years prior to setting that spell before you found it, and then after setting the spell, it was just a matter of weeks.

Chelle: Right, but I still had to get over my social anxiety and write the email and send it. You know, they weren't going to freaking pick my ass out of the blue clear blue sky and be like, "Hey, we found your email or phone number. We want," you know, I had to walk up and write the email and send it and kind of put myself out there, which I hate doing.

Laylla: Right.

Chelle: There still was a little bit of mundane real-world work.

Laylla: Exactly.

Chelle: Yeah, I bought the ring, but I still had to write the damn email.

Laylla: And now I have seen some manifestation spells happen instantaneously or happen overnight. Most of them take a little bit of time.

Chelle: I think that really depends on what you're trying to manifest, first of all.

Laylla: It really does. I mean, my least favorite thing is when someone is like, "Oh, I'm trying to manifest abundance," or, "I'm trying to manifest having a child," and then they're like, "The very next day, I had a positive pregnancy test." I'm sorry, sweetheart, but you got pregnant probably 6 to 8 weeks ago. Your spell did not make you pregnant overnight.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: Maybe the spell helped you to realize you were pregnant and to go buy a pregnancy test, possibly.

Chelle: Trust us, we know. We did a "get Chelle pregnant" spell before. And they don't happen overnight.

Laylla: They don't happen overnight. So, you have to use a little bit of logic, too. But yeah, a lot of times, these things make things in your favor. May the universe conspire in your favor, like I like to sign my emails, because getting that energy behind you can be tricky, but it's pretty beneficial and a lot of fun when it is.

Chelle: But once you get that energy behind you, if you put in a little effort and do your part, you'll make things happen, man.

Laylla: Exactly, exactly.

Chelle: So, it's not It's not that I don't believe in the manifestations or that I don't believe in resolutions. I just don't believe in the way that the majority of society goes about it.

Laylla: Yeah, a wish or or saying it's manifestation when you're not really doing anything, when you're not raising energy magically in any way, when you're not directing that energy magically in any way, and when you're not doing real-world mundane things to help take advantage of those magical opportunities, that it's just a wish. You're not doing anything behind it. It's It's just a wish.

Chelle: I had a step-aunt once. She always used to, you know, anything bad would happen, she'd be like, "I'm just going to pray it away." And it's kind of the same concept. You can pray all you want. You can have a conversation with Jesus himself, but if you are not doing something, nothing will happen. Energy for energy, just like a money exchange. You know, I exchanged my money energy for the ring energy. You still have to exchange some sort of energy if you expect anything back. Nothing is free.

Laylla: And it also doesn't account for chaos and the fact that life is fucked up sometimes. Sometimes you can do everything right, and it's still not going to work.

Chelle: You love your chaos magic.

Laylla: Unfortunately, life is chaos. I mean, you can you can be as healthy as possible and do everything right, eat the right foods, exercise, and still get cancer.

Chelle: This is what I like to tell people that I've mentored and and whatnot. You can't change everything. You can't work everything out with a spell. You can't manifest everything you want or Just as you can't wish for everything, you can't wish for everything to go away, either. You can only control so much, whether that is magically or in mundane world. You still can only do so damn much, and the rest, it's up to the universe. You have no control. So, you can't forget that element of there's a part of it, you might have control of 85%, but that other 15%, it's a roll of dice, man.

Laylla: If you're doing a spell to get a relationship, and no relationship is coming, that's not necessarily because you did something wrong in your spell, you know, it just—

Chelle: Well, if you're sitting in your bed every day and not leaving the house and not talking to anybody, some knight in shining armor sure as hell just isn't going to pick your front door out of that big old city and be like, "You know what? I'm going to knock on this door, because I bet you there's somebody behind it." Like, no, you got to put yourself out there.

Laylla: But you could still you could put yourself out there, you can go to parties, you can be awesome, you can do your shadow work, you can, you know, have great hobbies and love yourself and do all the spellwork and still not find anybody. And that's because—

Chelle: Because maybe the person you are meant for hasn't crossed your path.

Laylla: Maybe, yeah, or maybe the universe just fucking sucks. You know, but it doesn't mean that you did anything wrong. Sometimes you can do everything right and still not get it. You know, and sometimes you can see somebody do everything wrong and get everything that they want. Not because you're doing something wrong. It's just sometimes the universe is a bitch that way. You can't work everything every time.

Laylla: Right. So, like Chelle said, make sure you're doing it magically and mundanely.

Chelle: And be realistic.

Laylla: And be realistic about it, and also understand that you don't always get what you want, even if you do everything right.

Chelle: Think of it like your Christmas list to Santa. You might get 95% of your list, but when the hell have you ever gotten 100% of your Christmas list, seriously? And if you ever did, your parents need to adopt me.

Laylla: Right, me too. But I love to do spellwork. I mean, saying all of that doesn't mean that I I don't do it, because I love spellwork. It really helps. It gets me into the right mindset. It It creates a a perfect vibe for things to happen. And spellwork does work. We've had spells that work fabulously. So, I'm not saying that it doesn't. I'm just saying that sometimes the universe works in really weird ways.

Chelle: With your spellwork, you're putting it out to the universe, "I'm willing to work with you. Are you willing to work with me?" Just know that sometimes the answer is no.

Laylla: That's a very good point. That's a very good point. You know, before we end, I want to tell you, I did find, when I was looking at the Farmers' Almanac about some of the histories of where New Year's resolutions came from, the first mention of New Year's resolutions was in a Boston newspaper in 1813, and that was the first recorded phrase of the term "New Year's resolution." They also had a list of the most common resolutions from 1947 and the most common resolutions from today, and they were surprisingly—

Chelle: Okay, I got to hear this. I got to hear this. 1947, what are people— weight loss?

Laylla: Okay. So, number 10 was weight loss. Number 9 was greater part in home life. 8, take better care of my health. 7, be more efficient and do a better job. 6, be more religious and go to church more often. 5, drink less. 4, save more money. 3, stop smoking or stop or smoke less. 2, improve my character and live a better life. And 1 is improve my disposition, be more understanding, and control my temper. So, those are the top 10 from 1947.

Chelle: If I called you up and said, "Laylla, my New Year's resolution is to control my temper and have a better disposition. You would bust out laughing at me.

Laylla: Wow, you also were not alive in 1947, so that's Good thing because that is a resolution I would not be able to hold. Now, what about today? Okay, so today, number 10 is spend more time with family, which was on the 1947 is number nine, so that's pretty close. So number nine for now is fall in love, which didn't appear at all in 1947. Number eight, help others fulfill their dreams, also did not appear. Seven is quit smoking. Six is learn something exciting. Five, stay fit and healthy. Four, enjoy life to the fullest. Three, spend less and save more, which was really close because number four was save more money in 1947. Number two is get organized, which apparently they were all organized in 1947 because that also was not on the list.

Chelle: Life was easier.

Laylla: And drum roll, the number one resolution of today, do you have any guesses?

Chelle: I'm going with weight loss.

Laylla: Woo! Ding ding ding ding ding! You are a winner, Chelle. The number one resolution of today is weight loss, which was the number 10 resolution in 1947. So,

Chelle: Well, because in 1947, body image perception was better. That's all.

Laylla: Yeah, I think it was it was it was different. Things were different then, for sure. So, make sure when you make your resolutions that you have a clear-cut actionable goal, that you back it up with some magical energy through spell work and energy raising, that you make steps in the mundane world to reach that goal, and that you do something like Chelle had a ring, or I really like manifestation jars or spell jars for this, because that's an object like your ring that you can look at every day to help renew that idea or renew that spell. Some people use collages. They'll make collages to represent the goal that they're reaching.

Chelle: Like a vision board?

Laylla: Like a vision board. Yeah, something that you can put on the the background of your phone or your computer or actually in the real world, you know, somewhere where you're going to see it every day. Or a spell jar that represents that resolution or manifestation idea. Something that you'll see every day, a a stone or a crystal or a piece of jewelry that you've charged with that intention so that it reminds you and kind of re-energizes that spell work to keep that energy moving forward throughout the year.

Chelle: Now, before we end for tonight, I have to ask, and and I'll answer my own question after you answer. Have you made, and if so, are you willing to tell, any resolutions?

Laylla: Well, I have a couple that I'm not going to share. Too personal. But I do have one that I I definitely want to share, and you're going to like this.

Chelle: By the way, I'm going to ask you offline because I'm nosy. Keep going.

Laylla: This one is definitely for you and for me. My New Year's resolution for 2024, the big one, is to be more organized.

Chelle: Hell yeah.

Laylla: I have a lot of ideas, and I've come a long way from our coven days, that's for sure. But I want to be more organized. I need to keep my notes better, my podcast information better. But we have a lot going on and a lot of fun things coming up, and I I really need to get my scattered brain, my ADHD, my oh look, shiny squirrel, kind of under control. So that's my thing. That's my goal. How about you? What Do you have any New Year's resolutions, Miss Resolution Hater?

Chelle: I do. I do. I'm a resolution hater, but I do have a resolution, and it is realistic and attainable, and probably a bigger issue than it should be. But my New Year's resolution is to pay all of my back due Mass Pike tolls.

Laylla: Wow, that's a tough one. That's That's a big one there, Chelle.

Chelle: And if anybody has traveled or frequently travels on the Mass Pike or on the New York State Thruway, because I owe them too, that shit adds up, man.

Laylla: It really does. And it's going up.

Chelle: And for what you want me to pay in tolls, could you at least pave the damn road? Get me off this soapbox or I'll That'll be a whole another episode. But yeah, my New Year's resolution, pay my Mass Pike tolls.

Laylla: Well, there you go. That's a a concrete, actionable resolution. I'm impressed. I love it.

Chelle: Because you know what? I'm fine with my my chubby old butt, and I don't need to lose weight.

Laylla: Aw, yeah. You know, I really like the idea of positive resolutions, like, this year I resolve to go to as many pagan festivals and events as I possibly can. Okay, so that's my second one.

Chelle: Can I give you a probably unrealistic, but hopefully not, here's here's a good one for you. My New Year's resolution is that you and I live in the same city.

Laylla: Ooh, Chelle, that's a big one.

Chelle: It is.

Laylla: I think there's some inklings headed that way, so we'll have to see what the universe has in store for us. So, if you make New Year's resolutions or if you don't, send us your resolution or tell us why you don't do them at backonthebroomstick@gmail.com or at our Instagram @backonthebroomstick, or we'll have a Facebook post where you can sound off there and tell us what you think or what your resolutions are at Back on the Broomstick.

Chelle: Because I'm nosy and I want to know. Let's be real here.

Laylla: Yeah, and thank you again so much for all of the emails and all of the well wishes. Please like, star us, give us a review. It really helps the show out, and thank you for spreading the word. You guys are freaking amazing. I love our fans.

Chelle: And we hope you had a great holiday. And from Laylla and I both, we wish you a very happy, blessed New Year.

Laylla: Happy New Year. Be wise, be wicked.

Chelle: Keep it witchy.
