Welcome to Back on the Broomstick, a modern witches' spoken word grimoire, where two witchy friends from way back are reconnecting to their pagan roots after a long period of mundanity. We're rewalking the path of the wise and trying out all the latest spells, rituals, and magical theory in today's witchcraft and pagan practices. So grab your wand and your incense, your cauldron and your crystals, and join us as we get Back on the Broomstick.

Laylla: Hi, and welcome to Back on the Broomstick. I'm Laylla.

Chelle: And I am Chelle. So today, we're talking about a hot topic here. This is like all over the online world.

Laylla: People have pretty strong feelings about this one way or another.

Chelle: They really do. There's like no in-between with this, which is so funny because I'm so in-between with it.

Laylla: Same.

Chelle: Today, we're going to talk about the Rule of Three, and we're going to touch on some karma.

Laylla: The Rule of Three is a Wiccan concept that's sometimes called the Threefold Law or the Law of Return.

Chelle: I think it's important to point out exactly what you just said. It is a Wiccan concept, and I think that there's a misconception that all witches and all pagans all follow the Rule of Three. Only if you're Wiccan, and not everybody's Wiccan. So not everybody follows the Rule of Three because it's not a part of their thing, their belief, their jive.

Laylla: Exactly. Exactly. Yes, this concept actually comes from, most likely, Gerald Gardner. He's the first person that we can find a record of that talks about anything remotely like the Rule of Three. So, basically, it's a, it's a phrase. The modern version of it comes from a comment by Doreen Valiente. In 1964, she said in a public speech, "Eight words the Wiccan Rede fulfill, An' it harm none, do what ye will."

Chelle: I mean, that sounds great, but it's not like some ancient thing.

Laylla: No, no. This was in 1964, and then there are later poems that were published. One called the Wiccan Rede, published in the spring 1975 issue of a magazine called Earth Religion News. And then one later in the Green Egg magazine, which I love, and this was published by a woman named Lady Gwen Thompson, and she called it Rede of the Wiccae, W-I-C-C-A-E. And she said that it was from her grandmother, Adriana Porter, who was from a long line of witches. Now, the problem with that is a lot of scholars have researched these poems and found that the language used originated with Gardner, and it's not really accurate Old English or anything like that. So it looks to be a modern thing cobbled together. So like you said, not an ancient law.

Chelle: Yeah, and you know, and there's, there's also different variations of it, too. So it's not like even the, the verbiage is set in stone. Because I've even heard it as, "Mind the Threefold Law you should, three times bad, three times good." Again, it sounds beautiful. I love it. It has a good rhyme and jive to it. But the concept is not to be tagged with everyone who identifies as a witch or a pagan.

Laylla: That's correct. And the line that you mentioned is actually another line from the full poem. The Wiccan Rede is actually a 26-couplet rhyming poem.

Chelle: That's actually pretty long.

Laylla: Yeah, it's 26 lines. I'm just going to read three of them. The biggest three that you'll hear are the first line, "Bide ye Wiccan laws ye must, in perfect love and perfect trust." Another line later in the poem is, "Mind the Threefold Law ye should, three times bad and three times good." And then the last line is, "These eight words the Wiccan Rede fulfill, An' ye harm none, do what ye will." So these are all part of a greater 26-line poem called the Wiccan Rede. Again, that's ascribed to a couple different people, but they're mostly sure that it came from Doreen Valiente's work, Gerald Gardner's work. And so that's where this concept came from.

Chelle: The idea is, is that everything you put out there comes back to you threefold. So if you're putting out good shit, good shit's coming back times three. And if you put out bad shit, bad shit's coming back times three. But the problem is, is sometimes shit just happens.

Laylla: Exactly. Sometimes someone can do as many good things as they possibly can, and life still shits on them. Sometimes people can be the biggest jerk in the world, do the worst things, and...

Chelle: It's all sunshine and roses.

Laylla: Exactly. The universe is kind of a bitch sometimes, and we don't know why. We try to, to contain it and do magic and control it as best we can, but it doesn't always work.

Chelle: And that's why I think that maybe, like in my opinion, I, I'm gray on it. I'm not going to lie, you know. I, I've sometimes put out less than stellar shit, fully knowing what I'm putting out there, and been okay with that. But I, I kind of link this with the concept of karma.

Laylla: For good or bad, I think a lot of people do.

Chelle: What goes around comes around, man. If you're a shitty person, somehow, some way, that will come back to you. Might not be today, might not be tomorrow, but somehow, some way, your shit is going to come back to you like a boomerang.

Laylla: Karma has a lot of different meanings. I mean, the Hindu philosophy ascribes a lot of different meanings to it. Other cultures ascribe different meanings to it. It's a difficult concept to pin down exactly. But basically, the idea is that what you do in this lifetime determines what kind of lifetime you will be reborn into into the next one. If you do good in this lifetime, in your next lifetime, you'll be born at a higher station. Other people believe that that energy comes back to you in this direct lifetime, and that's more of the Western thought that gets kind of linked with the Rule of Three. The idea that whatever you do, you know, the idea of like attracts like. If you think good thoughts or you put good energy out, all of it will come back to you. That's kind of where those two ideas get squished together.

Chelle: And unfortunately, I feel like I'm going to find myself doing this, this a lot this episode. For all of our Swiftie fans out there, we can give you Taylor's version, too. For Taylor, karma is a relaxing thought. Aren't you envious that it's not like that for you?

Laylla: That's actually a really good point. The Threefold Law has some good sides to it as well. For one, it's a good tool...

Chelle: To keep you in check. To kind of keep you in check. You know, if you think, if in your mind, you're like, "Shit, man, whatever I do is going to come back to me times three, good or bad," that might steer your, your mind to be a kinder, gentler person.

Laylla: Absolutely. And, and it also, I mean, it goes to a lot of human thought. I mean, there's the, the Golden Rule, right?

Chelle: Which is kind of the same thing.

Laylla: "Do unto others as you would have others do unto you," right?

Chelle: Kind of the same thing.

Laylla: Yeah, they're, they're not really universal laws so much as they are...

Chelle: Moral codes.

Laylla: Yeah, moral codes.

Chelle: I call them moral codes.

Laylla: I like that. It's, it's a way of being in the world. And so if you think about your actions, all actions have consequences. Magical actions have consequences as well.

Chelle: I feel like there's, there's a saying, and I can't think of it, like, "All actions have a equal and opposite reaction." What, what is this? This is a scientific quote, and I...

Laylla: Yes, it is.

Chelle: You know what I'm getting at.

Laylla: That's one of Newton's theories. That's Newton's law of motion, and it's considered a universal law.

Chelle: Yeah. I thought you just said there was no universal law, damn you.

Laylla: Well, I just meant with the Threefold Law, that it itself is not a universal law.

Chelle: But they're all kind of the same thing, just with different words.

Laylla: They are. But as we stated before, it doesn't always work perfectly. This is not a perfect, beautiful system.

Chelle: Well, nothing is. What the hell is? But I think we've even said this in, in another episode. Actions have consequences. If you're mad at someone and you cast a spell at them, whether they deserve it or not, let's not get into that, you're mad, you're angry, you cast a spell at someone. I believe that that is effectively the same thing as swinging a punch directly at their face.

Chelle: Well, sometimes we all do stupid shit, yeah.

Laylla: And sometimes people need to be punched in the face. If you do either of those actions, something will happen back to you.

Chelle: Yeah, we are not advocating violence here, folks.

Laylla: We're not saying you should punch anyone in the face. What I'm saying is that if you do punch someone in the face, either with a spell or with your fist, you should expect some type of reaction.

Chelle: Yeah, but you know what the problem is with your theory in society? People know that there's a, a reaction to that. People don't always realize there's, there's consequences to spellwork.

Laylla: That's right. And maybe because they can't see it, whereas they can see a fist being swung directly at them. Maybe because they can't see it, they don't realize that those energies will have some type of rebound. But as we've seen in life, sometimes there are people who can punch someone in the nose and have absolutely no consequences.

Chelle: Or there's people that can take the high road and still get gut-punched in return.

Laylla: Exactly. Exactly.

Chelle: Yes, karma's a bitch.

Laylla: It is. But most of the time, if someone gets punched in the nose, you know, if they deserved it, the person doing the punching does not usually get punished. Oftentimes, they might get praised. But it's still a reaction. So we just have to be conscious of that. When you're doing spellwork, maybe it's not going to come back to you perfectly times three, but there will be consequences, and you should weigh those before you perform any kind of spellwork.

Chelle: And you know, people have, there's, we, we've had this conversation previously where we've been asked by listeners and, and just people in general, "Have you ever cursed someone or hexed someone or, or done, you know, negative magic towards someone?" You know, I ain't going to sit here and lie to you. Yes, I have. But the thing is, it's, it's something that I save for special occasions. And I go into it knowing full well that I'm doing some shady shit, and if I get shady shit back at me, I only got myself to blame. So I go into it with eyes wide open.

Laylla: Yeah, and that's, and that's exactly what we have to do. If you're casting a spell for success, you need to understand that sometimes success doesn't always look the way that you want it to.

Chelle: Success could mean you get fired from your job to pave the path to a better, newer, greater job. You just don't feel that way when you're getting fired.

Laylla: And it might not be the most convenient time to get fired and start a brand new job.

Chelle: But you're still in the end getting what you wished for.

Laylla: But you're getting what you wished for. So I guess that old adage of, of being careful what you wish for kind of comes into play as well. You know, if you want someone to get punished and do a spell to punish them, and then find out later that you were wrong, you know, what then? What are you going to do then?

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: So you got to think about that. You have to think about all possible consequences of your action.

Chelle: But all these things all tie in together. You know, the Threefold Rule, karma, the universal rule, careful what you wish for rule. Like, like these all, they're really all kind of the same concept, just looked at from different angles.

Laylla: Yes. Whereas it originally sounds like something that you tell a newbie, you know, "Watch out for the Threefold Law. Everything you do will come back to you three times three." And that's a good thing to tell a newbie because they really should be thinking over every single thing that they do. That's a great training guideline rather than a law. But as you advance in the craft and you advance in your magic, you're going to come upon times where you're like, "Well, times three be damned. I'm willing to take the consequences of my actions," and you go forward.

Chelle: Preach it. Right?

Laylla: So you start to question that law.

Chelle: Right. But it also doesn't make you judge and jury, either. Don't, don't take it that way because, because we're definitely not telling you that being judge and jury is okay, either, because that's not what we're saying.

Laylla: No, we're saying quite the opposite, actually, is, is that before you do anything, um, before you become judge and jury, I guess you need to research your case, if we're using the same analogy. I don't know. I guess you need to be the lawyer first.

Chelle: You know me and my fucking analogies. Yeah.

Laylla: I don't know. But yeah, you need to do the work first and research it, you know, before you do any spell. You need to check it out and find out how it's going to affect you, which is actually kind of a cool interpretation of the, the Rule of Three. I believe I saw in an article by Patti Wigington...

Chelle: Love her. I've been following her for freaking years. No shit. Years.

Laylla: Awesome article. But, um, yeah, uh, in there, she talked about what she called, quote, "one of the most sensible interpretations of the Rule of Three," states that the Rule of Three doesn't mean it's going to come back to you three times. It's talking about three different levels of magic. Basically, that your actions are going to affect you in three different spheres: physical, emotional, and spiritual. Which is actually kind of a very cool way to look at it.

Chelle: Oh, I like that concept.

Laylla: I do, too. I do, too. And it, it makes a lot more sense of the idea of taking ownership of your actions and taking ownership of the consequences of those actions.

Chelle: And I think that that's really kind of more the point that I like to drive home with folks is because, again, you know, I've, I have thrown caution to the wind and said, you know, "Consequences be damned, I'm doing it." So I, I think really the concept to drive home to newer folks is everything has consequences. Good, bad, indifferent, extreme, gentle consequences, but all things have consequences, and you just have to determine on what level of consequences are you willing to take.

Laylla: I also like to look at it as a very beautiful way of living with people. You know, some of the original ideas go back to Aleister Crowley, who I know is very problematic, but his original statement was, um, the Law of Thelema, which was, "Do what thou wilt shall be the whole of the Law. Love is the law, love under will." And that sometimes is said to be where Doreen Valiente and Gerald Gardner got the idea for, for their Wiccan Rede.

Chelle: Well, like you said, Crowley, little problematic kind of guy. Happens. He did have some really solid thoughts, and this was one of them, yeah.

Laylla: Yeah, well, we do have to acknowledge where our history comes from, whether we like those people or not. That's where some of these things came from. Hopefully, we have learned and grow from those people. But, that's from the Book of the Law, which was published like in 1904. It continues now with the idea of, "An' it harm none, do what ye will." And as a young witchling, I really liked that. It was a very freeing idea. Instead of this whole idea of, "You can't do anything. Everything good and fun is bad, and you're bad if you like them." So I'm coming from a background of that to this idea of, "Harm none, do what thou wilt."

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: That's, that's amazingly freeing and wonderful that, you know, all these things that I enjoy, as long as I'm not harming anyone or myself, because "An' it harm none" is to not harm you as well. "None" means "none." So the idea of doing things as long as no one got hurt, that was incredibly freeing. You could dance, you could sing, you could have sex, you could have relationships, you can read all the books, learn all the things. Nothing is forbidden as long as it doesn't hurt anyone. And so that's kind of a, a great way to be in the world.

Chelle: And, and you know, and that's why I, I think it is a good concept, whether you are totally into it or a little more on the gray side. It definitely is something that you want to kind of keep in the back of your mind because, if nothing else, it's going to kind of keep you in check mentally, you know. Okay, Rule of Three. Am I really just pissed off and angry and fucked up right now? I need to think this through. Or are you just shooting from the hip here, which could have really not so nice consequences depending on, on what you're doing? You know, it gives you kind of that little angel on your shoulder kind of thing.

Laylla: Or a little devil. Like, "Okay, so I'm going to get some consequences, but they're not going to be that bad."

Chelle: You know, you got the little angel kitty cat on your shoulder going, "Don't forget about karma and the Threefold Law." And then you got the little other devil kitty on your shoulder saying, "Throw caution to the wind, bitches. Let's roll."

Laylla: "They deserve it. Just do it." Yep, yep.

Chelle: All I can think of is Tom and Jerry with the little kitties on his shoulder, the devil and the angel. You know, sometimes he would listen to the, the good kitty, and sometimes he would listen to the bad kitty, and sometimes it worked out, and sometimes he got an anvil to his head.

Laylla: That's right. I'm going to use that with my students. Excellent. You know, the way that you just put it as a moment to think, a moment of self-reflection. It's not a universal law. We should not look at this as, "This is an ancient proverb from our grandmother's grandmother's grandmother, and it was passed down unchanged for millennia." You know, it's, it's not that.

Chelle: You make that sound so believable, though.

Laylla: Right? It sounds so good like that. But, but it, it is not that. It's still a very cool idea to help you stop and think about your actions and what you're doing, and do you really want this and the consequences of this. And then how you proceed from there is totally up to you.

Chelle: Completely up to you. I mean, you have to use your own discretion. There's going to be times when you do want to do that abundance and prosperity spell and the stability be damned. And there's going to be times when you do think someone needs to get their comeuppance and consequences to yourself be damned.

Laylla: Hexing our exes.

Chelle: That's right. Sometimes exes need hexing. Just saying.

Laylla: That's right. But you also need to be prepared to accept those consequences.

Chelle: Right, right, right.

Laylla: And you need to fully think it through before you do it. So if the Threefold Law allows you to do that, gives you that moment to be like, "All right..."

Chelle: Take that moment of pause.

Laylla: Yeah, then, then I think it's a great thing. So universal law, not so much. But good advice, sure.

Chelle: I find it interesting that people are like in like these crazy, heated conversations about this online. You would think they're fighting for their life on this one.

Laylla: I have seen groups blow up and die over, over the Threefold Law.

Chelle: Yeah. Which makes no sense to me.

Laylla: Arguing about it, I, that's like saying, "I'm mad at you because your favorite color's red."

Chelle: You can either ascribe to the Threefold Law as something that you follow as a hard and fast rule or not. But I don't think we need to get into the proselytizing that some religions do. We don't need to say, "My way is the only way," because there is proof that the Threefold Law does not universally work. And for it to be a universal law, science tells us it has to work every time, in every situation, exactly the same for every person. And it just doesn't.

Laylla: Well, and I also, I also think that, you know, the thing that draws people to witchcraft and draws people to paganism and all of the things that come under both of those umbrellas is the fact that you can kind of tailor this whole thing to you personally. It's not like Christianity where we have this Bible and everything has to be done exactly how it says in the Bible. This isn't like that. So why, as a spiritual group, as a religious group, and as a witchcraft practicing group, do we feel the need to try to do the same thing and say, "You know, you can do what you want and tailor it to your own life, except for the Rule of Three"? Like, what's with that? Do what your own, we, we have said this from literally episode one. Do it how you want, what feels right for you, the way you want to do it. And if that includes the Rule of Three, great. And if it doesn't, great. Great. Great.

Laylla: We're all for people sharing their experiences. Please, do tell us about times when the Rule of Three worked perfectly for you. Do you remember when people used to invoke the Rule of Three on someone? They wouldn't hex them, but they would just be like, "I call three, three by three on you," or something to that effect.

Chelle: Yeah, because I remember at one point, it got twisted into eight by eight, and I'm like, is...

Laylla: Oh, yeah, nine by nine, and oh, my goodness. What are we doing here, folks? Math is not my strong point.

Chelle: But if it works for you, that's wonderful and I and I think that we should share those things. We should definitely share when something works or doesn't work for us.

Laylla: But we shouldn't condemn the people that it doesn't work for.

Chelle: Exactly. And and I think in this particular case, it's very easily provable where it came from, when it was started, who wrote it, and how all the different versions, and that it's not a universal law.

Laylla: But I think maybe where that whole universal law thought comes in is the fact that it does seem that throughout the ages, multiple religions, multiple multiple spiritual faiths, multiple societies have had some sort of similar thing, so they feel like it's universal, but put in different words.

Chelle: And I think that's why it worked for so long. I mean, there was a period in the '80s when we were told this is ancient knowledge. This came to us—

Laylla: Yeah, and we were also told we were also told that Aqua Net was good for our hair.

Chelle: Oh, that's true. But we were told, and even our, you know, all the books even said it at the time, when when you started to do research, that's what you found was this is ancient knowledge that came down from the ancient knowledge tree in in all these old parts of the world, and these are true universal laws. And because they matched so well with other cultures and with other religious ideas, we accepted it.

Laylla: God, we were gullible.

Chelle: Well, I think we were all just starting out, and we continue to learn. I think gullible is when you just stay there. You know, we—

Laylla: Information was not as plentiful back in our day as it is now, and you almost had to like claw and scrape for info, claw and scrape for books,

Chelle: to find people. We didn't have the World Wide Web in 1989, thank you. Um, you know, the limited information that we had access to, we believed every stinking word of it.

Laylla: And it was wonderful at the time.

Chelle: Absolutely. Absolutely.

Laylla: But that was how many years ago? And we are still students. We are still learning. That's what this belief system is. It is an ever-growing, ever-learning, ever-evolving practice and idea. You have to honor where someone else is because we as a collective are all kind of forming this and learning this at the same time.

Laylla: But we're all at different stages of our journey.

Chelle: Sure. Yeah. And and you have to say, okay, at the time, this is what I knew. I got more information, and I know better now. And that's that's great. That's fine. And I think that's kind of where we are with the Rule of Three. So many people are talking about it and having ideas and conversations and engaging in excellent discussions that we have got a more nuanced look at it now, I think, than we ever did. But some people are still stuck in the past and want it to be a universal, magical, ancient law.

Laylla: It does sound good. I'll be honest. It sounds good.

Chelle: It is kind of cool. We'll put up a, um, I'll either put it in the show notes or up on our website, but I will definitely have a link to the full Wiccan Rede so you can read the whole thing. It's kind of cool. There's some neat stuff in there.

Laylla: I have it. I have it handwritten in my Book of Shadows, and and and I am proud of that because it is it's an important piece of text that everyone should be exposed to and know of, but that doesn't mean it's like the freaking cement word of the law of the land. It's definitely something that you should know and be acquainted with, but like you don't need to be living by every line of it, either.

Chelle: Exactly. Kind of like the words to live by that you had written in your new Book of Shadows back in the day that you spoke about in our last episode. This is filled, the Wiccan Rede is filled with really cool little tidbits. Like, um, let's see. Here's Here's a good one. "With a fool no season spend, nor be counted as his friend. Merry meet and merry part, bright the cheeks and warm the heart." So basically, don't spend your time on fools. Do not give them the time of day. That's good advice.

Laylla: And and here's a line that I actually like, a really short line. Um, "When misfortune is enow, wear the blue star on thy brow." And that just makes me think, and this might not even be the meaning, it just makes me think if if times are down and you're feeling shitty, man, and you know some shit's coming, the Goddess is there with you. Don't forget that.

Chelle: I've always liked that line as well, and I've always thought of the blue star on my third eye.

Laylla: Yep. Yep.

Chelle: And that That line always makes me think that not only is the Goddess with me, but the Goddess is within me, that my knowledge is the one that's going to help me, my higher knowledge is going to help me through this difficult time. And I I always fucking love that line.

Laylla: So it's definitely something that that you should be aware of and that you should know of and and, you know, take good stock in it, but, you know, Jesus, this ain't the gospel.

Chelle: But no, no, this is this is definitely not the gospel, Jesus. But it is definitely good advice. And so—

Laylla: It is. It is. And like I said, it it's a good thing to to keep right with your moral compass. But, you know, sometimes even with moral compasses, we all have to take a sharp left every now and again.

Chelle: And it is a Wiccan concept, like we said at the beginning. It comes from Wicca, which is a religion, which is rule-bound. It's it's a whole different thing. And so they have their way of doing things, which is great, and it's beautiful. And like I've said before, I have Wiccan DNA because that's pretty much—

Laylla: Where we started. Yeah.

Chelle: That's where we started. So you don't have to follow it.

Laylla: Not everybody's Wiccan. If you're not Wiccan, why are you following Wiccan concepts?

Chelle: Good point.

Laylla: It's similar to condemning someone for not believing what you believe.

Chelle: Correct. But I also think that if you are a witch, you should be really aware of your actions and how they affect you on all three levels,

Laylla: Oh, absolutely.

Chelle: emotional, physical, and spiritual. And you should also be aware, I mean, we're aware of the currents of energy that flow through us and other people. You have to know that things rebound and that what you do changes things. So being aware of it as a concept is definitely something I think all witches should do.

Laylla: Boomerangs are real things, you know.

Chelle: Yes. And punching someone in the nose will have consequences of some type. And I believe that very strongly.

Laylla: And hexing your ex will have consequences of some type. You just have to decide if those—

Chelle: Usually for the ex.

Laylla: You you just have to decide if those consequences are worth it to you.

Chelle: That's right. You have to decide if the consequences are worth it to you. So and you should pay attention to that in everything. We're not just always talking about hexes. We're talking about good magic, too. Are you prepared for that success? Are you prepared to move? You know, if you're doing—

Laylla: Most people are more prepared for the shit than they are for the good. Just putting that out there. Statistically, people are not prepared for good things to happen to them.

Chelle: That's a good point. You know—

Laylla: I hate that.

Chelle: If you ask for friendship and companionship and you start getting bombarded with invitations, are you ready for that? Are you in a good place to accept these things before you do the spell to get them?

Laylla: Right. Sometimes people are not necessarily always mentally prepared for the good, just as much as people aren't always mentally prepared for the bad. But you forget that piece of the puzzle. You forget that good can be scary and different and, you know, who likes change?

Chelle: Yeah. So I'm not sitting here after I do any type of working expecting some big universal daddy to come down and smack me upside the head because I did it wrong. But I am prepared to accept the consequences of—

Laylla: Universal daddy?

Chelle: Well, who else is going to punish you? I mean, come on.

Laylla: That just gave me a bad visual that had nothing to do with punishment, just—

Chelle: That kind of gave me a good visual that had absolutely anyway. But, it's not that kind of podcast, Shell.

Laylla: Right?

Chelle: Whereas the I don't expect that punishment to happen from the universe. I do expect that because I did a hot foot spell so that my coworker will find a new job and get out of here—

Laylla: Don't be bitching if that if you get the hot foot spell, too.

Chelle: Don't be bitching if it boomerangs back on me, which, unfortunately, hot foot always does. What's up with that? It always boomerangs on me.

Laylla: But sometimes it's worth it.

Chelle: It is. But be prepared that you might be working by yourself until you find a replacement for that person.

Laylla: Right.

Chelle: So I am prepared for the consequences of my actions. I don't think the universal sky daddy is going to punish me for them three times.

Laylla: I just I'm dying over this universal sky daddy thing. Damn. Like, I just got this I just got this like Zeus-looking kind of guy pictured in my head spanking me.

Chelle: Oh, shadow. Meow. Okay, on that note.

Laylla: On that note, thank you all so much for listening. Before we close out, I just want to say it is almost our one-year anniversary. We have just a few episodes to go before we will be back to February, the beginning of February, and one year of Back on the Broomstick. And I am so thrilled and so happy and having so much fun with you, Chelle.

Chelle: And you know what? This is amazing. In this just about year, I want to just mention to folks, I got a shameless plug here. Laylla and I have been nominated on modernwitch.com for Best New Podcast of the Year, which, first of all, fucking thank you, guys, for nominating us.

Laylla: Yeah, thank you so much. That was amazing.

Chelle: It has been like a crazy rollercoaster. So if you get a chance and if you are willing, would you please, please, please, modernwitch.com, vote for us, Best New Podcast of the Year. We would be so happy and so grateful. The Witchcraft and Occult Media Awards.

Laylla: Thank you so much to Modern Witch and to everyone who nominated us and who's voting for us for the Witchcraft and Occult Media Awards, Best New Podcast. That's wild. And we just want you guys to know that we love and adore you just as much as you love and adore us. So let's keep on this ride and let's stay on this broomstick. Don't forget to like, subscribe, check out our Facebook page at Back on the Broomstick, our website backonthebroomstick.com, our lovely Instagram hosted by Chelle @backonthebroomstick,

Chelle: our great Facebook hosted by Laylla, Back on the Broomstick on Facebook.

Laylla: Yep. And please give us stars, give us ratings, give us reviews, tell a friend. It really helps the show out. And, of course, as always, we just love seeing those. So thank you so much. Be wise, be wicked, and as always, keep it witchy.
