Chelle: I think I ate nothing but Christmas cookies for Christmas.

Laylla: That sounds perfect. That sounds like the best way to celebrate Christmas, I think, to be honest. Just eat Christmas cookies all day long.

Chelle: Right? It's witchcraft.

Laylla: It's 4:20 a.m. Hi, and welcome to episode 49 of The Stoned Witches Hour. On this podcast, two best friends on opposite coasts of the USA get together to tell each other paranormal tales, witchy happenings, and haunting true crime, all while smoking the dankest buds in the land. I'm Laylla.

Chelle: And I don't know if I'm smoking dank buds, but I have a funny story of what I am smoking for you, because I'm Chelle, and I'm high, and there's a reason why. And I'm I'm on the East Coast, which is the Beast Coast, because we're fucked up today.

Laylla: Chelle has gone beast mode, and you're going to have to tell me what you're smoking. I'm so curious. It's not buds, but we'll get into that later. First, we want to talk about how this is part three of our holiday shows, the Ghosts of Christmas Future. And today, we're going to be talking about the future of paganism, divination, tarot cards in particular, and getting into what

Chelle: 49. 49. Wow. Bravo to us, by the way.

Laylla: Pat ourselves on the back. This is the last episode of this year. We're kind of in that lost week, you know, between the 26th of December and January 1st, when nothing really counts. Santa Claus isn't watching.

Chelle: I don't even know where I am right now.

Laylla: Yeah, I don't think your Spotify songs count towards your wrapped next year. Nothing counts right now. It's just like a free-floating week.

Chelle: Well, and also, I just want to point out for all of our Instagram followers, I get crazy in December. Like, the holidays, you know, like there's kids, and there's I got a grandkid this year, new, and like, oh my god, like stuff. So, the Instagram has been a little silent the last few weeks. My bad. But I see your messages for those of you who have messaged on Instagram. I have been responding to you. And I promise to god, I will be posting here shortly. I just See, now I'm in that like What did I call it at Halloween? Oh, I called it Halloween hangover. I'm at Christmas hangover, but I still have to prepare for my New Year's hangover.

Laylla: It's the lost week, Chelle. I'm telling you, nothing counts this week.

Chelle: Like, I don't Like, I don't even remember if I actually work my day job this week. Like, I don't even know.

Laylla: Nobody knows what day it is. We're all confused. It's just, yeah. We're we're here. And so, we're going to turn to tarot and see if we can kind of make sense of some of this madness. And I'm going to do a three-card spread for January for all you Aquarians out there, just to kind of see what our month is going to be, because I got two new tarot decks, and I'm just thrilled.

Chelle: I got two new tarot decks, too.

Laylla: Fabulous. So, we'll talk about our new tarot decks, we'll do a little reading for next month, and talk about the future of paganism. And today, as a surprise, we're going to bring on a surprise smoking guest whose birthday was December 27th, and we're going to hang out with her.

Chelle: I hear she's a smoker. My favorite.

Laylla: I'm so looking forward to smoking with one of our listeners. How fun is this going to be? I'm just

Chelle: This will be what, our second time smoking with a listener?

Laylla: Oh, that's true. Lisa Ann was a listener turned guest on our podcast, so that's pretty exciting. Love you, Lisa Ann, by the way. Hope you're having a

Chelle: Hope you had a good holiday, Lisa Ann.

Laylla: Miss you, girl.

Chelle: And you'll have to tell me what you think about my funny weed I'm smoking tonight, Lisa Ann.

Laylla: I'm so curious. You have got me so fucking curious. I don't have good weed. I have just my regular homegrown.

Chelle: I'll give you a hint. I'm smoking too good of weed today.

Laylla: This is definitely great weed. Don't get me wrong. Mine is get my my words being all weird, my eyelids are all closing. It's it's definitely good weed. I'm feeling happy. Just boring. My pipe's cool, though, I think. The jury's out on the pipe.

Chelle: I don't know. It looks thin to me. It looks fragile.

Laylla: Well, it's not fragile. It's just boring and

Chelle: Clear.

Laylla: And it's hard to clean, to be honest.

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: So, jury's out. I'll let you know by the end of this episode. I'll let you know if I like smoking it or not. And now we'll join a conversation already in progress with our special guest Darleen and her bestie Kaylyn, who've already smoked enough cannabis to kill a rhino, done a little tarot reading, and are looking at a photograph taken during one of their rituals that may have evidence of ghostly activity.

Guest: Now, do you see anything in that picture that's not physically there?

Laylla: The things that we saw here was right around here, Chelle had a really big

Chelle: Right, right. Yeah, directly above directly above that white box. Yep.

Laylla: So, right there.

Guest: And look right next to it to the left. Do you see the little girl's face?

Chelle: You know, I do, actually.

Laylla: Now, there was also a Viking. You mentioned a Viking energy that was there as well.

Guest: Yes, and he's on he's above her husband's head.

Chelle: I don't necessarily see a Viking per se, but I do see the outline of a body.

Guest: I definitely felt it was more protective in that moment.

Laylla: Yes. Yes, the energy that I'm feeling, what what I was getting over here definitely felt very protective to me. Um, I'm not sure what's going on in the center of the picture. I don't know what that is. And I'm I'm not really sure what kind of vibe I'm getting from it. Less of an active presence and more of a Like, we talk about the tape presences, like a like a ghost that's there but's not an active ghost, you know, kind of like

Chelle: Like it's on like it's on record, like it's on replay.

Laylla: Yeah.

Guest: Yeah, like like the energy was kind of burned. I see a little girl that kind of passes through all the time in my house.

Laylla: Maybe that's the replay. Maybe that's where she's That's the video she's walking through and just kind of does the same thing all the time. Or does she interact with things or do anything different at all?

Guest: Honestly, I've only ever seen her pass through. She doesn't linger, so I think that you're right on the money with that one.

Laylla: So, she may be just a tape.

Guest: Because she's a little girl, since I'm sensitive, she would have approached me by now.

Laylla: Right, she would have said something. If it was an active ghost, she would have kind of tried to, you know, react with you in some way.

Guest: Or my daughter would have seen her. One one of

Laylla: Oh, your daughter's sensitive as well? Does this run in your family, your mother and

Guest: Yeah, my mom was a clairvoyant medium.

Chelle: Now, have you had any contact with that other entity in the background above your husband's head?

Guest: So, I don't want to be corny. I um I'm definitely more on the Norse side of things. So, I don't I don't want to be corny, but I definitely do practice more in like the Norse mythology side of things.

Chelle: Sure.

Guest: So, to me, it read Viking. But like, again, I'm not trying to be that person, you know?

Laylla: No, no, no. I get it. The the way that sometimes the way that protective energies appear, and that might be why we can't see it as clearly, because maybe it is Norse, and because you have that connection, you're able to see it a little more clearly. I distinctly got a feeling of protection there and that there was a spirit there, and I can see it in the shadow. Chelle also kind of could see more of a figure than I could. So, maybe that's just something to do with your connection to it.

Chelle: Well, I don't think any of the things going on um in that picture are anything to be concerned about in any way. They're there, but nothing I don't think there's any weirdness going on.

Guest: Just kind of we're just protective watchdogs.

Laylla: Yeah, I don't know. You might I feel like you summoned I don't know if he's there all the time, but I feel like you guys definitely summoned that Viking. Like, he came because you called.

Guest: So, we asked for protection. Yeah, because we were doing kind of a big boy job, if I'm going to be honest. Took a month, a month to finish. So, constant It was it was a big one, and it was one Yeah, have you ever had something happen and you're like Because you see that stuff with with people all the time that are like, "I connected with blah, blah, blah, and I'm hexed, and all this stuff."

Chelle: And I live in Salem. I see it every day.

Guest: So, like, when it actually happens and you realize it after so many years, you're like, "Am I this person?"

Laylla: Right.

Chelle: And we've had that happen, too. We've been the ones that are like, "Are we just making this up?"

Guest: But I don't want to sound ditzy, because Yeah. Yes. Yes. So, I sensed it on her husband that he he had kind of a like a generational curse-type situation, and I felt that it started at work somewhere. I mean, I don't want to speak too much, but there's been a lot of awful stuff all the time. And and so, she was crazy enough to believe me.

Laylla: Well, it worked. I can it definitely tell that there something came at your call to help. So, I hopefully you're seeing the results of that, because it, you know, there's something there for sure, very strong. The girl, I think, is a is a recording, but the

Guest: Oh, the girl, yeah. The girl was a recording, yes. So, what did you say? I I'm so high, I forgot already.

Laylla: Oh, that's okay. No, but the definitely I the Viking definitely came at your call, so that energy is is definitely there. I hope that it's working out. So, I'm curious. You'll have to let us know how that goes.

Chelle: And and that could also be um it could be your spirit guide. Something to think about.

Guest: Don't play with my emotions.

Chelle: Stranger things have

Guest: That would be so cool. That's another one of those, "It couldn't possibly happen to me," moments, you know?

Laylla: And here's Chelle to confirm it for you.

Chelle: And that's exactly when it's going to happen, is when you're like, "Oh, this can't happen." Boom, here it is.

Guest: Thank you.

Guest: Oof, that picture, though. Like, we set aside We lost track of time. We were so in tune with all the spirits that surrounded us and were basically just giving us download after download, and it was amazing. Like, we had an other-worldly conversation. It was our first time ever doing a hex together. So, it we were it it was weird. We were doing something, and then it just flared. And I swear there was nothing crazy in there. I know what Florida Water does, okay? Like, but it just all of a sudden did the big fire, and I was not prepared, and I was like, "Oh, wow." And then it got hot. And it was just

Guest: And we just both instinctively started throwing stuff on it.

Chelle: But those are the those are the times, though, where like deep crazy shit happen. I love it. I love it.

Guest: It was deep crazy. I ended up turning that ash into a protective barrier around my house.

Chelle: Smart. Very good idea. Yeah, very good idea.

Guest: Thank you. And got to give it back to the Earth, you know?

Laylla: Yes, always a good idea. We hope you have the most fabulous birthday ever.

Guest: Thank you, guys. Oh, my gosh. I thank you for everything. You guys are amazing.

Laylla: You are very welcome.

Chelle: Thank your husband for reaching out to us.

Laylla: Thank you so much, Darleen and Kaylyn, for joining us. It has been an absolute pleasure smoking with you both and doing a birthday tarot reading, and, of course, talking about this extra spooky photo.

Guest: Oh, the pleasure's all ours. Anytime you want you want us back on, just say the word. We'll we'll be there.

Laylla: Oh, hell yeah.

Guest: I still have my ghost story to tell you.

Laylla: Oh, yes, you'll have to send that to us for our next uh book of stories, so that'll be good. I almost said book of I almost said Book of Shadows. But you have a wonderful rest of your birthday, and I hope the rest of your year is fabulous, and we will

Chelle: Happy 37. Happy 37. And happy almost anniversary.

Guest: Thank you.

Laylla: You're welcome.

Chelle: So, I was looking into the future of witchcraft and tarot and divination and stuff myself, and I, you know, for some reason, I kept going back to this one article. The article is titled, "Modern Witches Explain Why Tech is the Future of Witchcraft." Now,

Laylla: Interesting.

Chelle: we can't say that we deny this at all, because here we are.

Laylla: No, that we were just exactly. I mean, that's exactly kind of what we have both experienced is we went from online to in-person to now it seems to be back online again.

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: Yeah. And the online part is coinciding with a surge in witchcraft and divination popularity.

Chelle: But it's different now, and and I think I think I think part of it is the progression of time, but I also think part of it was sped up by that evil pandemic we've all experienced for the last, I feel like, forever, couple of years.

Laylla: Absolutely. Yeah, people were at home, and they were looking for answers and looking for things that interested them and and found all these online communities and online readers, and just the popularity exploded from there.

Chelle: I mean, nowadays, like, you can get Reiki certified online now. You can take tarot classes online now. You can take witchcraft classes, classes in Wicca, classes in Buddhism.

Laylla: Exactly. You can be part of an online coven, you can be part of all sorts of online groups.

Chelle: Actually, that that kind of surprised me. Call me old-fashioned, but I had come across like online covens. Like, now, I remember like we would like talk to each other online, but like we were still like in person. Like, there's online covens that they've never met each other in person, and they do everything online. And I was kind of taken aback by that, and I applaud those folks for for making that connection. But it is it is markedly different than it was even 5 years ago. Even 5 years ago.

Laylla: Yeah, very much so. And obviously, it's no secret that witchcraft is having a moment. I mean, it's it's it's our moment, it feels like. Everybody, I feel, has even I have, and and we all know that I'm probably the least technical person here, even I have gone to WitchTok.

Laylla: Yes, and and I think that there was an article written just last year. Uh, it was in it's called The Debrief, and the article's titled, "Online Witchcraft is Popular as Hell, and It Isn't Going Away." And as people are looking for more natural ways of being and more ways to connect with the Earth, as climate change is happening, you know, people are starting to look to these things, and and I very much feel that witchcraft and science are cousins, you know? There's a lot to be said for the two working side-by-side. And I think that, you know, people kind of are going that way as they start to go back to a more natural state of being or desire to be closer to the Earth are definitely looking for religion that matches that, and paganism is it. Different flavors of paganism.

Chelle: Sure. And I just I got to insert this, because I was able to find time through the holiday season to catch this on Netflix, and I can't not mention it. Wednesday. Have you seen it?

Laylla: Oh, yes, love that show. That's a great show.

Chelle: Not necessarily Wednesday per se, just because it's so new. Um, I mean, it's only been out for like what, a month and a half, a month? I don't know. Not long. But shows like that. There's more shows that involve paranormal, witchcraft, things of that nature. I mean, Harry Potter, for God's sakes. Doesn't everybody want to be a wizard and have a wand now? It's it's it's blown up in mainstream media, um in movies and in books and in music. It's being talked about. It's kind of more in your face. Added to boredom, you know, everybody wants to start being like Sabrina the Teenage Witch, you know?

Laylla: True. And there's the accessibility of it, you know? In witchcraft, you don't in different types of of Wicca and paganism and witchcraft, you don't have to go through uh a priest or or some type of school or whatever. You can, and that will definitely help you, but you can learn as much as you want to on your own. You don't have to be authorized to do it. You can just decide to do it. And it's beautiful. I guess it lends itself very easily to TikTok videos and Instagram accounts, because, you know, it's so pretty. You know, spells, they look great.

Chelle: But all these all these pockets on TikTok and Reddit and Tumblr, they've largely stayed out of the public consciousness until recently. You know what I mean? There's always been that there's always been that online presence ever since the beginning of the internet. I mean, we talked about

Laylla: Oh, yeah, very much so.

Chelle: We talked about the Witches' Voice, I don't even remember when.

Laylla: Yeah, pagan and witch chat rooms in AOL.

Chelle: But now it's in your face everywhere, and before you had to dig for it. You don't have to dig You don't have to dig for it anymore.

Laylla: That's true.

Chelle: And there were times, you know, there were different shows, the um What's the one with the sisters? The the three sisters that were

Laylla: Hocus Pocus?

Chelle: No, no, no, no, no. TV show. Um

Laylla: Witches of East End?

Chelle: No, not that one.

Laylla: Charmed.

Chelle: So, you know, there's there's Charmed with the three sisters, and

Chelle: There's a good point right there. There's so many, I couldn't think of which one you were talking about.

Laylla: Right, exactly. And so, there's a lot of them out there, and they get popular, they wax and wane, you know? And now it's it's Wednesday, which isn't really exactly witchy, but kind of it's it's on the edge of it, you know? The biggest thing that I see, and in particular, I know my kids are there, I'm on there, you just said you're there, is TikTok. Instagram and TikTok, you see WitchTok people everywhere. They have huge followings.

Chelle: And and that's the thing, because, you know, it's interesting that our devices are actually like This is such a weird thought, but think of this. Our devices are now a powerful source of energy. Not only are they electronic, but they have our every thought, our every feeling, our every desire, our every curiosity, everything.

Laylla: People feel insecure when we're away from our devices.

Chelle: You you haven't seen funny until you see someone, and I'm not saying it's funny, because I have been there and been panicked, but when someone misplaces their phone and like go into that fury, it it's hard not to

Laylla: And they lose their mind, absolute panic mode.

Chelle: It's hard not to chuckle, because you've kind of been there, and you've been like, "Oh, my god, I know that feeling."

Laylla: Right. Right. And so, you know, online and and finding things online is definitely going to become more and more the future of witchcraft and tarot. But it's also got a dark side, a very dark side.

Chelle: Oh, absolutely. Like every but that's that's the internet.

Laylla: Yeah, that's true. But that's the misinformation. And and like Chelle said, that's the internet. There's misinformation everywhere, and it seems that misinformation proliferates much, much faster than truth. So, you have to kind of vet your sources and and pay attention. Just because something's popular doesn't mean it's true.

Chelle: I I came across something really weird, and I know my I know my son plays this game. I don't know if you ever have, so I had to get your perspective. Cuz we all know I'm not a gamer person. There's some witches that not only do they share spells that can be cast using technology, cuz they're actually there there's a movement called tech witch. So, you got, you know, your kitchen witch, your hedge witch, your forest witch, your tech witch.

Laylla: That's been around since the at least since the '90s.

Chelle: I never heard of that until now.

Laylla: Hey, we've done magic online. So, I guess we were tech witches before it was called a tech witch.

Chelle: Why do we always do things before it's named? Weird. But no, this this one person that that is a practicing text witch, tech witch, named Maxine, her handle is @spookthespoon, she uses games such as Minecraft to set up virtual altars, create art pieces based on their craft and cast spells, and says it's a great way to have fun and can be cheaper and easier for those starting out. Can you explain this to me?

Laylla: Yes.

Chelle: Tell me. Is this like Sims?

Laylla: Kind of. Sort of. Minecraft is a building game, and it's open world, much like Sims. It just has different just a different look to it and a different purpose. I guess in in Sims, you build houses and communities. In Minecraft, you can build the whole world. Basically, we used to do it in World of Warcraft. You can have people Yeah, because your character is your avatar. It is a representation of you digitally. And so, that representation can go to a location and hold ritual with other avatars of people in that same space. And I would have ritual with other people all over the world in World of Warcraft, not just role-playing, but also actual full moon and Sabbat rituals, by the game. No shit. You can have representations of air, fire, water, earth, and deity in the game, and you can do the same thing in Minecraft. Build an altar or, you know, build an artwork that's part of a spell or part of a part of a ritual. And you'll start to find this happening more and more often because it is so accessible to people.

Chelle: No shit.

Laylla: Yeah. And it's easier to find a community that way.

Chelle: I even I even read that people are using emojis and reap kind of basically like repurposing them as sigils. They're using emojis in spells to get the desired outcome.

Laylla: Sure, why not? It is a sigil. It is a sigil. And if you imbue that emoji with a certain type of energy, that's going to carry through, whether it's online or not.

Chelle: Throughout the valued, treasured time at home, we'll call it that.

Laylla: Ah, yes, quarantine days. How we do not miss you.

Chelle: During the quarantine days, I I spent those two years doing a online Reiki course and became a Reiki uh a certified Reiki master.

Laylla: Oh, you're one of those people who spent that time productively.

Chelle: I did. I did. Um so, I actually took this with someone, kind of like a uh they were group classes in in Zoom and then did the attunements one-on-one via Zoom. And I was I'm not going to lie, I was a little hesitant at first. I'm like, "I don't know how this is going to work out cuz we're on the computer and we're not in the same place." Right. But actually, no, you do feel that connection and you do you do feel that that energy exchange. And I was taken aback by the fact that you actually can make that connection over the internet. So, that was a first for me. So, yeah, I got my my first, second, and and master Reiki plus attunements all in cyberspace. All online.

Laylla: That's pretty fantastic. I I guess I was first introduced to this concept as a kid when I read about Have you ever heard of Edgar Cayce, the Sleeping Prophet?

Chelle: Yep.

Laylla: Yeah. He used to diagnose people. He did a lot of medical things, and he would kind of go what he called the Akashic He would go to the person's records, the Akashic Records, and he would very often visit people while they were sleeping. And so, he would he would go to sleep and go into a dream state, and then he would project his energy into their dreams and talk to people and give them all sorts of answers and insight into things that were going on. But he did that from a distance. You know, there weren't computers back then. I don't don't remember at all what year he was alive, but there were I know there weren't computers then, no phones, no nothing like that. But it was the same If your energy can travel through a dream state or or through an astral projection state, then, of course, it can travel just like electricity through an internet or through a virtual space.

Chelle: It's just interesting that, and you know I'm always the last person to jump on these latest fads like connecting with people online. But yeah, no, actually, I I was surprised, and it almost made me wish that I had dabbled with doing stuff like that previously because it is a conduit. I don't know. I guess I never thought of it that way.

Laylla: I can't tell you how much I kick myself that I didn't start a Twitch stream or a YouTube channel or a TikTok. Right. But a lot of time, I see a lot of disinformation, but every once in a while, I'll stumble across somebody that's fucking amazing. I have to say, I was going through TikTok the other day. You see a lot of fluff, and so I saw somebody something about a hex. And I initially kind of just like swiped past it, and then I went back because I liked the audio. I so I wanted to hear the audio, so I was willing to like watch what I thought was going to be like a dumb kind of fluff, "Look at me how pretty I am and what pretty tools I have," kind of TikTok. And instead, it fucking floored me. So, this this young witch was there, and, you know, she swiped over to doing a spell jar shell.

Chelle: Oh, oh, my favorite.

Laylla: Your favorite. And holy fuck if I couldn't feel the magic coming right off that jar. Whoever she hexed, not good. You know, as she's adding herbs to this jar, I could literally feel the intention and the energy and the magic come up from that TikTok. And I was kind of happy I stayed, even though it was originally for the audio. But it's out there. You know, there there is real magic out there, you know, in

Chelle: There is. There is. And and, you know, there's there's somebody that that I follow that I actually originally found on Facebook and then bounced to Instagram, then bounced to TikTok. She's real good. Psychic medium, does Tarot, what are those things? I can't even think of it. The the the metal rods.

Laylla: Dowsing rods. Love dowsing rods.

Chelle: I'm she does dowsing rods, Tarot, uh just general psychic readings. There there are good people out there. There are scams out there, though. There are. But there are there are good people out there.

Laylla: Some of the ones that were recommended to me was Chaotic Witch Aunt, um Mara Caitlyn on TikTok, um Rising High Priestess.

Chelle: I'm a big follower, um my absolute top-notch favorite is uh Kato the Medium. Absolutely 110%.

Laylla: Awesome. Yeah, we will link some up-and-coming people on different social media in the show notes. So, if you're interested in checking anybody out, you know, we'll have some some links on there for you.

Chelle: And actually, just as a side note, aside from all of the Tarot and divination stuff, I actually Kato the Medium is who I got my Reiki levels and master certification through.

Laylla: Oh, nice. Nice. Very cool.

Chelle: And she's super fun. She's super fun. Like super fun. Nice nice girl.

Laylla: Does she offer classes on that regularly?

Chelle: She does. She does. You can get them on her website, um katothemedium.com. But she's on she's on every platform. She's on Facebook, she's on Instagram, she's on TikTok, she's everywhere. And she is super awesome. And that girl is spot-on accurate. Like spot-on accurate. She uh does these every once in a while, every week, I believe it is, she'll do like an hour free uh on Facebook Live or on Instagram Live or on TikTok. And she'll just random pull and do some free readings for people. And every single person is always commenting, "You are so spot-on," "You know, how'd you know that?" Like this girl's good. I've been following her now I've been following her since the beginning of the pandemic, and I'm hooked. I think part of it is it's not just, you know, being shut in and being quarantined and and things of that. There's there's definitely a spiritual shift, and that started long before the pandemic and long before, you know, people having more time on their hands inside with their devices. I just think there's been a shift to to witchcraft and Wicca and paganism as a whole. I don't know. For I think it's actually been ramping up for 20 years. Um I just think it's kind of really caught fire in the last maybe 5 years. People are abandoning traditional religion like wildfire right now. Everybody's kind of flocking to a more spiritual self.

Laylla: I definitely think I have seen an uptick, like you said, maybe in the last 5 years, particularly in 2019, prior to the pandemic, things seemed to really be ramping up at that point. And then, after everyone was kind of stuck at home with the lockdown, a lot of people started looking

Chelle: It added gas to the fire, basically. But the fire the fire had already started.

Laylla: And I think there's a lot of dissatisfaction with, like you said, some of the more common religions. Yeah. There's a lot of dissatisfaction there, and people want better answers.

Chelle: And honestly, in the year 2022/on the cusp of year 2023, what is a witch's best friend? Google, man.

Laylla: It is a huge source of information. I love having it right at my fingertips. We used to have a huge website, circleofmarat.com.

Chelle: I miss that.

Laylla: I do too. I think I've got all the files somewhere, but so many spells and rituals and information on the the Sabbats and Esbats and anything you could want was right there. And I love that that is it's everywhere now.

Chelle: You know, you can be like, "Oh, what herb should I use for this particular intention? Let me Google that." And then, poof, there's your answer. You know, you're not sending out, you know, messenger pigeons to get this information. You're Googling it. So, Google has become a witch's best friend. Um you know, the infinite YouTube videos and TikToks and Instagrams and Reddit feeds, um the Google Classrooms, Discord servers, there is more than you can absorb of every type of flavor. Every type of flavor. But unfortunately, everything it's all out there online. But what about that in-person vibe, man? I've been trying to connect with local pagans, and I've looked on Meetup, I've looked on Facebook. Ugh, can't stand Facebook, but I went there anyways because that's where a lot of people

Laylla: Wait, are you talking about I was going to say, are you talking about in-person or online?

Chelle: In-person. I want to go to local in-person.

Laylla: Oh.

Chelle: I miss our local community, and I miss being with other pagans. And it seems like everything here is really far away. I could drive hours and hours and hours away and connect with people, and that's just not feasible for everyday life. I'm lazy. I'm not going to do it.

Laylla: But see, what I don't I don't understand that, though, because if you go online and you're like, "Where are my witches at?" they're from like every city and every state all across the land. But the minute you want to meet people in person, there ain't a witch for 300 miles.

Chelle: Well, get this. I found some people on Facebook.

Laylla: People? Real people?

Chelle: Real-life people. And I thought this would be a great opportunity. It was a Meetup group for the local pagans. And I had a little bit of a wait to get invited in, and then me and a bunch of other people all got invited. And there was a whole bunch of, "Yay, welcome. How you doing?" and questions about What do you mean you had to get like what what's the invite process? This is where I get a little leery.

Laylla: I guess it was a closed Facebook group, which, you know,

Chelle: They just want to vet and make sure you're not a robot or Yeah. Yeah, exactly. some spy or Okay.

Laylla: I didn't have to like pass any checkpoints or anything. It was pretty fast. I wanted to join, and you did.

Chelle: You just had to literally exist for real. Okay, good enough. Good enough. Okay. Yeah. So, you know, I get my invitation. A bunch of us did at the same time, and there was a flurry of activity. "Hey, how you doing? Anything going on for Yule coming up? Any full moons?"

Laylla: Then it went dead.

Chelle: Then it went dead. Crickets.

Laylla: And then, a little bit later, more people got invited, same process. So, I start asking around, and I even made a post, "Hey, I happen to have a large public business that has a meetup space that's free. Since there doesn't seem to be any local meetups, let's get together and talk, you know, free coffee, I'll bring cookies." Of course, you'd Of course, you'd be the one to like try to spearhead some fucking group. That's so you.

Chelle: Well, fuck, if I want something to happen, I'm going to have to make it happen, right? So, what happened?

Laylla: They never allowed the post. They allowed me to continue to respond to other people's posts about, "Hey, is there any Yule going on?" "No, I haven't heard anything. Have you heard anything?" but they would not allow me to make a post. They would not approve a post about any type of meetup.

Chelle: On a meetup page?

Laylla: On a meetup page because they do the meetups, and apparently, they're not feeling well. So, I said, "Hey, what about I'll host an in-person meetup with a Zoom option so that more people can attend?" They didn't allow it. So, now I'm trying to find other groups. I'm using Reddit. I'm going through a local pagan store that also has no information on local full moons or anything like that going on. And so, I'm going to start my own group and see if I can get something going. But I'm going to have to kind of skirt around the existing group that isn't helping anyone.

Chelle: Well, why is this so hard? Why?

Laylla: You know, Shell. You know exactly why.

Chelle: I do, but I I do know why, but like I don't like We're dancing around the white elephant. Don't say that there's not a problem and then create a problem. Exactly. And the problem here is control. People are afraid to give up control. If they have control of a local pagan group, when we were up-and-coming pagans in our group, there was a lot of fear by the old guard that these kids are coming in and they're shaking things up and they're doing things differently. And there was fear until they saw that everything was just fine, and it took them what, 10, 15 years, but they settled down. I'm just hoping that this particular local group settles down a little bit faster. I just want to help people meet each other. I don't give a fuck about leading a group. Been there, done that, don't need to do it again, but I'm happy to facilitate a meetup.

Laylla: You know, that makes me wonder if that's why I've had such a hard time connecting with any group in goddamn Salem, Massachusetts. I am in the witch capital of the world, and find somebody. Good luck. Have fun. You want to go shopping, you can go shopping all day long in this joint for anything you want. Try to get involved in a group, good freaking luck, okay? Like I'm going on almost year three being here, and nothing, nada, zero. Can't infiltrate anything. And it's not even like I'm some like baby witch. Like like I've been doing this like 30 years, and I can't infiltrate a group in this damn town. It is nutso cuckoo. I don't get it.

Chelle: It seems like the established groups are not interested in helping anyone at all to either join their group or facilitating meetups and spin-off groups. Not interested. Well, like like I I get it. I don't get it. I don't either. I don't either. And alternatively, you have newbie groups that start up and fizzle out very quickly because of lack of leadership or lack of support from the the other groups in the area. And I I don't understand, especially because our topic of this particular episode is Ghosts of Christmas Future, and we were planning on talking about Tarot cards and divination and how witchcraft and is just exploding across everywhere, except in person, it seems. That's so funny because I'm I'm going to talk about this article I read, and the title of the article is actually about how the future of witchcraft is via tech.

Laylla: Okay. Well, then that is right on fucking point, Shell. So, I also have a couple articles that I wanted to talk to you about that are very current. One is something very near and dear to your heart. It's about the British monarchy.

Chelle: Really? Ooh. Yes. Ooh, I'm already intrigued. I'm leaning in. Right. So, again, I know we're leaving the USA, which we've done a little bit this year. But there is a Tarot reader. She goes by the name of the Northumberland Witch. And she says that amidst this Harry and Meghan drama, which, I know, I'm Team Harry and Meghan and you are not, I am so not. But she says that that in the midst of all this drama with Harry and Meghan, that the royal family is actually going to come out better than they have in the past. This is actually going to open things up for them. And despite all the bombshell revelations in the Netflix drama that Harry and Meghan have just recently put out, the royal racism much by the royal family? But they said, the Northumberland Witch says, their fortunes have changed. The Queen passed this year. We have a new King. We have the first Christmas without Her Majesty. I'm sorry, Shell.

Laylla: Can I just say that I have the most beautiful I obtained the most beautiful Queen Elizabeth II Christmas ornament, and it's right in the middle of my tree, and I love it.

Chelle: That's so you. That's so you.

Laylla: Yeah, it is, man. She's on my tree now.

Chelle: She says that how the papers have perceived them, how the British public has perceived the slight, it's actually going to work out better for the monarchy in the long run. So, she says the Wheel of Fortune in their reading says that despite how things are now, the wheel's going to change, and the British monarchy is actually going to come out in a better light.

Laylla: All I got to say is 110% Team Kate and Wills, man. You ever see a reading by someone else, Shell, and kind of get your own impressions of that reading?

Chelle: I have. I have, because sometimes you'll see, especially online, people will post like the actual spread and then give their give their interpretation, their reading. And I look at the spread, and I'm thinking, "Huh, that's what you get?" cuz I get something different.

Laylla: We will talk about that a little bit because with this proliferation of readers and witches everywhere, as you know, comes a shit ton of misinformation. So, we'll get into that in a minute. Also, those readers that love to blow smoke just to make their clients happy, ugh, can't stand that.

Chelle: And the ones that are hired by the Inquirer that are they really readers, or did they just own Tarot cards? Well, before we get too far off-topic, I looked at her reading. Just from her words, I kind of immediately got a feeling, you know? Maybe because of your connection. I'm not big on the royal family, but I do love you, and I know you're big on the royal family. And so, maybe that's why I kind of got this vibe. But as I was looking at her reading, the biggest feeling that I get is something shocking is going to happen in the beginning of 2023, probably the first three or four months.

Chelle: Ooh.

Laylla: And and I do think that the royal family image is going to get overhauled and things are going to get better, but not because it's against Meghan and Harry. I think they're actually going to help Will and Kate, maybe not necessarily King Charles, but I do feel that the siblings are going to, something big is going to happen and they're going to

Chelle: Heal the rift?

Laylla: I think so, and they're going they're going to change the face of the monarchy for the better together.

Chelle: Cuz really, no matter what side you're on, Harry's side or William's side, we all just want these poor boys to just, they're brothers. Stop fighting.

Laylla: Exactly. They're brothers who lost their mother, you know, and their dad's, they lost their mother.

Chelle: He's a swell chap.

Laylla: Right? And the whole monarchy, you have to admit the monarchy has its own issues. But anyway, so the Northumbrian witches are in the news because of tarot. You know, why while we're in the news does it have to be weird stuff? But we spoke last week about the four college students in Moscow, Idaho who have were brutally murdered and the the investigation is still ongoing.

Chelle: Your Debbie Downer episode.

Laylla: That's right, the Debbie Downer episode. Now, there are a lot of people covering this, both just from a factual angle, how we tried to approach it, and also from a more fantastic angle, a more like trying to get, how do you say, like trying to get attention, a more um

Chelle: Attention seeking.

Laylla: There you go, more attention seeking way. Uh in particular, a woman named Ashley Guillard. She is a TikTok tarot reader, and she is quite popular. She has over 100,000 followers.

Chelle: Because the future of witchcraft is online.

Laylla: It's on TikTok and on YouTube and on Twitch, absolutely.

Chelle: And podcasts.

Laylla: And podcasts, I hope so. And she has millions of views on her TikTok videos. We definitely need to get in there, Chelle. But, unfortunately, rather than just talk about these unsolved murders and maybe give a little bit of insight or possible speculation, which not the greatest thing, but a little speculation's not going to hurt anything. But she has promoted herself as an internet sleuth and uses tarot cards to try and solve murders.

Chelle: Oh yeah, see, I don't get involved in that. No way, no how. No, no, not interested.

Laylla: Inserting yourself into such a high-profile case, and in this particular case, she has accused a professor at the school. This professor was five hours away in another state and has an airtight alibi. However, despite being told to cease and desist, Ashley Guillard posted over 20 TikTok videos accusing this woman.

Chelle: Oh, wow. Isn't that like against the law at some point?

Laylla: Yes, exactly. It comes up against defamation, and she is now being sued. Ashley is now being sued for defamation by this Idaho professor.

Chelle: Wow.

Laylla: And they're looking for a trial by jury.

Chelle: Wow.

Laylla: Yeah, the professor's filing a federal lawsuit and alleges defamation over the accusation that this professor was involved in the unsolved killing of these four students.

Chelle: Wow.

Laylla: Yeah.

Chelle: Just from a tarot reading?

Laylla: Just from a tarot reading and her own internet sleuthing abilities.

Chelle: Yeah, but you can't believe everything you read on the internet, though.

Laylla: Exactly. Exactly. And so that's tarot in the news right now, and both of them are bad. As I mentioned, I have a bubble pipe today.

Chelle: Beautiful. It's cute.

Laylla: It's cute. It's kind of ugly. Um actually, we have it because my husband broke the bong.

Chelle: No.

Laylla: Yes.

Chelle: No.

Laylla: At least it wasn't me this time.

Chelle: That's just what I was thinking.

Laylla: It wasn't me. So, he broke it, and rather than spend to replace it, he got this kind of cheap bubbler pipe, which I'm not 100% sure if I like. So, rather than talk about the weed I'm smoking today, Chelle, I'm going, cuz it's just my home-grown, I'm going to talk about my pipe.

Chelle: I had a I had a tragedy.

Laylla: Oh no, what happened?

Chelle: Speaking of weed. It's me being me. Like everything worked out in the end, but it's just me being me. So, I'm really high, and I had to grind up some weed. So, I I I get everything ready and I get it in there. And at one point, you know how it has the bottom part that collects the kief?

Laylla: Yeah.

Chelle: Well, at one point, I was scooping out little pieces of kief, so I had that part open.

Laylla: Mhm. Oh no.

Chelle: So, as you can imagine, the whole thing is disassembled. But, the kief part is like jam-packed full. Okay.

Laylla: Nice, nice. I love a good full kief container.

Chelle: I need to grind more, and it's all just sitting there. And who pays attention? Obviously, not me. So, I put the grinder back together really quick, and I grind

Laylla: How quick, Chelle? How quickly did you put it back together, Chelle?

Chelle: Too quick.

Laylla: Ah, shit.

Chelle: So, I grind up like, and I grind up a bunch, like two big huge buds. Cuz I'm like, oh, I'll grind up enough for quite a while. So, I grind up a bunch. I go to open it to pack my pipe, and I'm like, why isn't this opening right? This is weird. And I'm looking, and I'm looking, and I'm looking, and I'm like, why is there a piece to the grinder still on my tray? Oh no. I ground all of the weed into the kief.

Laylla: That's going to be, that's going to be nice, though. That'll be like a couple potent bowls or a few really nice joints. Oh, fuck yeah, roll some joints with that shit. That'll be so good.

Chelle: So, I have like, I don't know, a little less than a eighth ground up with probably three grams of kief. There's nothing I could do with that at that point other than just dump it all in the bag together.

Laylla: Fuck yeah.

Chelle: So, it's endgame mixed with God knows what, and I'm not complaining.

Laylla: Hey, when life gives you ground endgame with God knows what kief, you make joints, and then you're happy.

Chelle: That's right.

Laylla: And a good time is had by all.

Chelle: So, I didn't dump it on the carpet like your tragic kief story.

Laylla: Oh, thank goodness.

Chelle: I didn't intend to grind almost an eighth of weed into the kief, but here we are.

Laylla: Well, that's sounding to me like the problem where the person with the chocolate bar runs into the person holding the peanut butter jar.

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: You know, that's not really a problem. If you need to function, it is.

Chelle: That's right. That's right.

Laylla: But, I don't know, nothing matters right now because I have that endgame mixed with like probably two and a half months' worth of kief.

Chelle: I can see your eyes are awfully glassy and your eyelids are coming down. You definitely looking kind of high. I did go online and asked people what they thought the future of tarot looked like. Are they seeing a resurgence of it? Are they seeing a new popularity, and where do they see that going? And most people think that it's cyclical. I think most people think that this is kind of a fad, it's kind of just like a rising thing, and that it'll go away.

Laylla: You think? I don't. I don't think it's going to go away. I think that witchcraft and paganism and tarot and astrology are going to become a little bit more acceptable, a little bit more part of everyone's everyday life.

Chelle: I was going to say respected, but acceptable works.

Laylla: Yeah, I like respected, for sure. One person said, quote, "hype curve." They called it a hype curve because it's just something new and pretty and flashy, and they think that it's it's going to kind of go away.

Chelle: But it's not new. But it's not new.

Laylla: You're exactly right. It is not new. It is this is old, really, really old. Tarot has been around for an extremely long time. Some of the earliest references are what, in the mid-1400s, back in Italy?

Chelle: At least. Yeah, I think that's when the first official official decks were created with the 78 cards. I don't know, we did a podcast on it. I feel like it was a little bit before that in China.

Laylla: Oh, right, right, right, right. Well, they did they have the cards, or was it the the automatic writing?

Chelle: Might have been the automatic writing, but the traditional 78 deck was like around 14th century Italy.

Laylla: Yeah. And and it was, you know, artists use it. There's theories that the the modern playing cards are derived from that or vice versa. Um but they've been around for quite a while.

Chelle: And people um

Laylla: More than five years.

Chelle: More than five years. And I think, you know, whether this is hype or not, they're not going anywhere because it's a great tool whether you use it for yourself, just personally, use the book and kind of go through and and do your own self-guided inner working, you know, with it, kind of do some inner work for yourself.

Laylla: Okay. Now, since you wanted to talk about the tarot, we are going to real quickly divert back to some of our Christmas gifts, our Yule gifts that we received. Real quick before we talk about tarot. For those listeners who have been with us from the beginning, do you remember Snack Factory Pretzel Crisps? I have added Pretzel Crisps to my snack rotation because of you. So, oh, and they still haven't sponsored us. Thanks a lot, Snack Factory.

Chelle: Yeah, seriously.

Laylla: For nothing.

Chelle: But I took a break from Pretzel Crisps for a while. I came across these garlic parmesan the other day. Oh my god, okay.

Laylla: They sound like a bad breath in a bag.

Chelle: Deliciousness. Deliciousness.

Laylla: Well, yeah, but uh

Chelle: It is bad breath in a bag. But Snack Factory Pretzel Crisps, garlic parmesan, I'm a fan. Okay, tarot.

Laylla: Sound delicious. So, back to the tarot. Yeah, we were saying that we had gotten as solstice or Christmas gifts, we've each gotten some tarot decks.

Chelle: I laughed because I was going I was like, oh, I got two decks, and you're like, I got two decks. What did you get? What did you get? What did you get?

Laylla: Oh, from my lovely daughter, I got the Santa Muerte Tarot.

Chelle: Now, that looks a little, that looks a little, it reminds me of like New Orleans. Am I right? Am I kind of right?

Laylla: It's a little more Mexican, a little more Día de los Muertos, Santa Muerte, the sacred death.

Chelle: Ooh.

Laylla: The artwork is stunningly gorgeous. One thing I absolutely love is the the minor arcana. I don't know if you can see on the skulls. Can you see their eyes?

Chelle: Oh, they're hearts.

Laylla: Exactly. Every

Chelle: Their nose is a heart, but upside down.

Laylla: Yep. Every single suit, the eyes of the skeletons match like the Like the suit. So, if they're hearts, they're cups. That's right. And if they're swords, that's a spade. Like if they're swords, they're spades. Yeah. So, I thought that was kind of a neat little touch, but very beautiful, beautiful cards.

Chelle: Okay, so I'm going to show you a deck, and then and then we're going to go back and forth. We'll do a back and forth.

Laylla: I love it. Go for it. Show me what you got.

Chelle: So, my daughter, daughters are great this year.

Laylla: Aren't they wonderful?

Chelle: This one is called, it's called Theme Park.

Laylla: Oh, cute. Oh, look, it's got cute little animals on it, like a cute little bear and a cute little bunny.

Chelle: Now, I don't know if you use Line as a as a chatting platform on your phone, the Line app. Um we chat online with our friend from England. Um so, these the animals on this Theme Park deck remind me of the Line bear and the Line bunny. Um they're basically like specific, we'll call them emojis for lack of a better word. They're like specific emojis to that chat platform. But they're cute. Look at them.

Laylla: They're very cute. That's adorable.

Chelle: There's elephants and giraffes, lemurs.

Laylla: It's almost like a like a kids' circus kind of deck.

Chelle: It kind of does, but like I said, oops, I'm trying to get a good angle for you. It's called Theme Park. Um and they're smaller cards. This is not like your traditional, it's not like a mini deck, but it's not like a full-size tarot card. You know what I'm saying? They're they're little like palm decks. I don't know what to say. But they're cute.

Laylla: That is cute. That's a very, very cute deck. Like the Wheel of Fortune, look at it. It's like a Ferris wheel, and they're holding hands. Like it's super cute. They can turn a difficult card into a very cute little thing.

Chelle: I this this is a deck that is definitely something for, I don't want to call it a fluffy deck, but it's it's a fluffy deck. It's cute. I would I would buy this deck for maybe a a a person, a teenager, a girly girl. It's a very cute deck. I love this deck. And so, that was one of my decks I I received as a gift. So, what was your second?

Laylla: Well, I first I just want to say that I do feel that decks definitely have personalities, not all.

Chelle: Oh, absolutely.

Laylla: Some of them are just decks, but quite a few of them will have a very distinct voice, a very distinct personality. I've even had one particular deck that would lie to me. I don't think this deck liked me. If I ever did a reading for myself, it always told me I was going to die.

Chelle: Nice. That's awesome.

Laylla: Really. Yeah. And it was a beautiful deck. It was kind of a, it was made by an artist who had done collages of things and then taken pictures of these beautiful um found object collages, and those were the tarot cards. And I was never able to connect with this deck. It would literally do readings for people that was outright lies. It was never right. And it always told me I was going to die. And one time when we were doing a tarot presentation at a college, we had gone to a large university and were doing a tarot presentation. Afterwards, we all kind of went around and um did readings for people.

Chelle: I remember that.

Laylla: This young person came up to me, and I was giving them a reading. Those cards just jumped out, and I did a reading for this person, and it was perfect. It was spot on. It was glowing. It was beautiful.

Chelle: I think I know what deck you're talking about, cuz I remember that.

Laylla: So, this deck loved this young person, so I gave it to them.

Chelle: But I feel like this this is, I don't want to say like a fluffy bunny deck, but kind of like a fluffy bunny deck, like a very cutesy and whimsically.

Laylla: Yep, I believe it. They have personalities. Sometimes the decks themselves will absolutely have personalities. Sometimes it goes along with how they look, like yours. It looks cutesy and pretty and nice, and it kind of has

Chelle: It feels cutesy and nice.

Laylla: Mine looked beautiful and had a very sinister vibe, at least for me. For this other person, it seemed to love them, and so I hope they're still very happy.

Chelle: So, what's your second deck?

Laylla: The second deck my lovely, beloved got for me, and this is the, I've showed you this already. This one is uh called the Dark Mansion Tarot.

Chelle: Love, love, love, love, love, love, love.

Laylla: I just absolutely love everything about this deck. I love the box. I love everything on the inside of the, the little inscription.

Chelle: Oh, how gorgeous.

Laylla: The artwork is just stunning, and it it's just, it's different, and it's beautiful. It's called, it's uh by Tarot Collectibles Studio, and it's called the Dark Mansion Tarot. Just gorgeous. Just kind of, you know, different artwork. This is something a little more um whimsical than I normally choose, but how fun is that?

Chelle: It's it's like, it is, it's fun in a darker way.

Laylla: In a dark, I guess I kind of gravitate towards those. But just, I love the artwork. It's it's stunning. And I I I love a detailed tarot card. I like the ones that are rich in details because the way I read, there's the meaning of the card, but it's layered with what's on the card, the symbolism itself that's in the card. And you, and you know from doing tarot readings yourself, sometimes when you're doing a reading, a certain symbol or color or object or picture on a tarot card will catch your eye, and it's that symbolism you need to follow rather than the precise meaning of the card. You need to go into more of a nuance of it. Uh so, the more richly detailed the cards are, the better I feel I can get into a space where I can read for someone.

Chelle: Right, right. That's, I think that's what started my tarot collecting obsession, cuz I think the two decks I got this holiday season are putting me at about the 150 range, right?

Laylla: Oh yeah, what's the second one?

Chelle: I think sometimes it's it's about the vibe you get. And again, you know, you're going to get cards as as gifts, and people are going to give them give them to you. And that's one thing I do want to point out. You can buy your own tarot deck. There are people out there that feel that you have to be gifted a tarot deck. To that, I call bullshit, okay?

Laylla: Bullshit.

Chelle: Go and buy yourself a damn deck. Make the plunge.

Laylla: Buy a deck, buy a brand-new deck, buy a deck with cartoon characters, buy a deck with traditional Rider-Waite symbolism, buy a

Chelle: Whatever, whatever you feel.

Laylla: Whatever works for you. Use the book that comes with it, use an online guide, whatever works for you. As long as you're not trying to tell someone that you're a professional when you're not, when you haven't put in the work and put in the study, go for it. Do readings for yourself, do readings for your friends, and you're going to find some amazing truths and insights just using these cards for yourself. So, go for it.

Chelle: Well, you know, we talk about the explosion of witchcraft and Wicca and paganism and spiritualism. There's also that equal explosion with tarot, which is how I'm going to, I'm segueing into my second deck. I'm getting there.

Laylla: Okay, I can't wait to see it. I'm just so excited.

Chelle: I am an Amazon shopper. I think that's that's why I ended up getting Amazon Prime, I think like 10 or more years ago, was because I started buying tarot decks online. You know, when you're in rural upstate New York, you know, your tarot shop options are limited, and when you become an obsessive collector, you have to branch out to Amazon. So, I've been searching, I've bought I've bought so many decks online, and sometimes you get to the point where you start seeing the same things over and over. So, I started looking at a little old site that I'm sure everybody's familiar with called Etsy.

Laylla: Love Etsy.

Chelle: What's been happening, the surge in tarot reading and tarot interest and divination interest, what's been happening is people aren't just happy with what they're finding being put out there by Llewellyn or US Games Systems or wherever. So, they're starting to make their own. And you're finding more unique, less commercial decks. You know, maybe a hundred were made, or maybe they only are making them as they're ordered. Kickstarter is another one.

Laylla: I'm working on one myself, actually.

Chelle: Which, by the way, Laylla is going to make sure that it is available for all of us once it's done. You know, there's a lot of people on Etsy creating their own decks. There's, you know, truly even on Amazon, people creating their own decks. So now, where you might have only been able to find maybe 20, 30, 40 different deck variations in the past, all of a sudden, you're starting to find literally hundreds and thousands of different ones um that are very unique. Some are very limited quality. And I believe that this one is one such deck. So, the second deck I was gifted.

Laylla: Ooh, that's different.

Chelle: Isn't that pretty? It's called the

Laylla: Is that pot leaves?

Chelle: Yes, it is. It is called the 420 Tarot.

Laylla: Hey, there you go. Nice.

Chelle: The 420 Tarot. This was created by Juliana W. Rose. The back of the box, I love this. Light up, pull a card, and answer all of your burning questions.

Laylla: Nice. Very cool looking so far, Juliana Rose.

Chelle: It says, "420 Tarot combines the magic of cannabis with the wisdom of traditional tarot in an easy-to-use deck for the curious and creative stoner or anyone wanting to unlock their power of their intuition."

Laylla: I love it.

Chelle: So far, so good. Now, I'm going to open the box for you. So, I'm laughing. Like, you know how boxes are. They always got these things. So, on the inside, it says, "Have fun and don't get cursed." You don't put that on a tarot deck, for the love of God. Oh my god.

Laylla: Well, nobody wants to get cursed.

Chelle: Right? So, then on the other side, it says, "A warning. The magic this deck can unlock is very powerful and therefore protected by a very scary and real curse. This curse is activated by unchecked biases and complacency with white supremacy. If you are white or benefit from white privilege and are not actively working for the joy and liberation of black and brown people on a daily basis, put these cards away. It will not go well for you." That's heavy.

Laylla: It is pretty heavy. This whole, this whole company talks about giving back to black women, fems, according to their website, they do a lot of work to kind of promote equality, social justice, particularly in the cannabis field. As we know, it has been rife with racism and discrimination and problems right from the fucking name marijuana.

Chelle: It still is to this very second. What you talking about?

Laylla: Exactly. To this very fucking day, it's been overtaken and, you know, during prohibition, the punishments came down pretty heavily on black and brown people, more so than white people, and and it just is continuing today. So, I'm not surprised, and I kind of a little happy that they're at least trying to bring an awareness to that. You know, it might make people uncomfortable, but at least they're trying to make people think.

Chelle: I like what they're doing. I don't like the word curse. I love I love I love what they're doing. Different verbiage.

Laylla: I do see a one review where it kind of scared off a a tarot newbie who was gifted these cards. They had no idea the curse was there, and it really, really scared them.

Chelle: Yeah. But look at these cards. Like, I'm laughing because everybody has like bloodshot eyes, they're smoking joints.

Laylla: I love these.

Chelle: Even even the Hierophant. He's high. The Hermit's hiding in the dark with his joint.

Laylla: Light up a joint. I love that.

Chelle: These are great. Then they give you some different spreads, which, you know, same as a book. They kind of give you some pointers. There's a section if you've never done this before, which they they actually talk about smoking while doing tarot cards under the "if you've never done this before" section. I love it.

Laylla: Nice. I looked up though 420 Tarot website, and I'm I'm looking at the the part about Juliana Rose. She's the illustrator who created it, and she says, "I'm an illustrator who loves tarot and weed, and I have magic in my mixed race, Korean and white, blood. I am the creator of 420 Tarot." And she says that it was sparked from a conversation with some friends who own smoke shops and that she spent a couple months getting high and listening to the Moana soundtrack while illustrating each card. And I just think that's a lot of fun. And she says the process infused the deck with joy and magic. The experience was an easy and generous flow.

Chelle: Check this out. This is a cute thing. There's a section called "Your 420 Tarot Fairy Gnome." "Every 420 Tarot deck comes with a magical fairy gnome. It is a spirit guide here to ensure you pull cards that are clear that are clear answers to your questions. Your 420 fairy gnome will meet you where you are. That means there is no wrong way to shuffle the cards. You are building a relationship with your 420 fairy gnome when you pull the cards. Be good to them. They prefer when their home, the deck in the box, is clean and tidy, and they love smoking weed with you. The 420 fairy gnomes are unique and diverse, just like you and me. They are speedy and too small to see with the naked eye. You can get to know your fairy gnome with your 420 fairy gnome spread found in this guide." Like, that's cute. I like that. And then there's a little picture of the the 420 fairy gnome right there.

Laylla: Oh, how cute. Cute. That actually kind of goes along with something I'm doing for my tarot deck, which, as you know, I'm using AI to help along with some other online art studios to create my own tarot deck. One of the things I want to do, it's going to be a limited run deck of 420 decks, and each deck is going to come with its own guide. There will be an AI chaos-generated deck fairy to go with each deck. We'll have a guide, and they will all be unique. So, every single deck will will have its own unique card that has the picture of a creature, a fairy, a deck guide of some sort that will be unique to each different deck.

Chelle: Oh, that's so cool.

Laylla: Right? One of the things I wanted to do, I very often do a yearly spread for myself in January. Do you do anything like that, Chelle?

Chelle: I do. I usually do it on New Year's Day, though.

Laylla: Yeah, I usually do it either New Year's Eve or New Year's Day, and I'll do a a year-long spread for myself to kind of see, you know, give me kind of an idea of what the year is going going to be like and and sometimes also to put a little intention in there on on what I want the year to look like. And so, with that in mind, I thought I would take one of my brand new decks and shuffle it up and do a three-card draw just for the month of January. And since, you know, I can't do a reading for everyone, it would be just way too freaking general. I'm sorry, my beloved audience, but there's too many of you. But so, so instead of doing a general reading for all of you, I'm going to do a three-card tarot spread for all my fellow Aquarians, and uh so we'll put I'll do that. I'm going to start shuffling the cards, and I'll uh do a little three-card spread and see what our January is going to be like, my fellow air signs. So, what kind of spread do you do for the for the New Year's, Chelle? Do you have any particular spread that you do? Do you do like a Wheel of the Year?

Chelle: No, I just do the full-on my normal Celtic Cross, I think.

Laylla: You do like the Celtic Cross and just the intention of it being for the year, the year to come?

Chelle: I just use that spread for everything. I don't really vary away from it, not going to lie.

Laylla: I love that spread. It's very useful. It's very it's very flexible.

Chelle: I'm a creature of habit, you know.

Laylla: I have a um I do have a year spread that I like to do that I will put um I'll see if I can get some type of drawing of it, and I'll put that in the in the show notes if anyone else wants to do a tarot reading for themselves for their year to come. All right, Chelle, so I've got my cards all shuffled up here. I'm going to cut them, and then I will draw three cards to be for all Aquarians who are listening right now, myself included, since my birthday month is coming up here shortly.

Chelle: It is. I'm still excited for your tarot deck.

Laylla: Right? I'm hoping to have it out by the middle of the year. No Kickstarter necessary. We'll see how it goes. It's a lot of work. Okay, I'm going to show you the three cards that I pulled, and I just do a little three-card for my monthly readings. I just do a small three-card little crescent. And the first card is usually the influences from the past that will affect the month. And for that, I got the Five of Wands.

Chelle: Nice card. I like that card.

Laylla: And then for the second card, that's going to be the major theme that carries through the month. And for that, I got the Nine of Pentacles.

Chelle: Ooh, that's a cute card, too.

Laylla: And then for the card that's kind of going to lead me out of the month and be kind of the conclusion of all of this, I have the Hermit.

Chelle: Ooh, interesting way to lead into February.

Laylla: Right? Very interesting. So, we've got these three cards, my Aquarius tarot spread here. And so, we've got three cards, and we said that the first card forces leading into the month, themes that we've had in our life that are kind of continuing to be an issue in this month. Unfortunately, for our January, we're going to start out with a little bit of conflict. It's not going to be the easiest beginning to the month. It looks like there are stresses and conflicts from recent months, possibly, or recent events that are going to kind of continue to cause issues in January. But then, it goes into the Nine of Pentacles, which is a very fulfilling card. I can't see Pentacles and you, Chelle, without thinking of the Ten of Pentacles in your one deck was the that was the the weed card. What was the Herbalism deck?

Chelle: Yep, it was the Herbal Tarot, and the weed card, it was a rainbow with weed all over it, and it said, "Happily ever after."

Laylla: Yeah, that was the one. And that so, Nine of Pentacles is very, very good to have here. Definitely means there's going to be more fulfillment. There's going to be happiness. So, after initial conflict, we're going to move into more of a

Chelle: With the Nine of Pentacles, also, if there's been some extreme financial stress, that some of that will be laying off.

Laylla: Oh, I love that. Don't we all want that, especially in freaking January?

Chelle: Right?

Laylla: The last card that we have for our Aquarius three-card spread is the Hermit. And I think that's kind of an interesting card. The first two make sense, you know. You kind of have conflict and stress, most likely over money.

Chelle: Look at the time of year. You're going to be sliding into February, the coldest part of the year here in the Northern Hemisphere. We are hunkered down. We're hunkered down. We're hermiting for February. That's what we do.

Laylla: And I think that kind of goes along with, so, money stress kind of easing and money coming to you and lightening that burden, a little bit more bountiful, a little bit more

Chelle: Relaxed.

Laylla: A little more relaxed. Much less

Chelle: What I'm getting from it is stresses are eased financially.

Laylla: That's right. And the Hermit is also kind of saying, to continue with this financial easing, stay home.

Chelle: 'Tis the season to be a hermit.

Laylla: That's right. 'Tis the season to stay home, smoke your own weed, and kind of slow down on the spending and and work on yourself. Work on your inner self a little bit. So, I think that's our three cards for Aquarius, you know, easing of stress and a little bit of money coming and a lot of going within. And as Aquarians, we do a lot of that anyway, so totally fitting.

Chelle: To my son, you're an Aquarius. Listen to Laylla.

Laylla: Yes. Aquarians unite. We got this. So, yeah, it's going to be a good month for Aquarius. Start out a little rocky, but it's going to get a lot better. So, yay us.

Chelle: Go Aquarians. And so, you know, speaking of your beautiful monthly spread, that brought us to a beautiful idea. We're actually going to do this every month. So, our last episode of each month, we're going to do a three-card spread for the coming month. So, next month, at the end of January, I will actually offer up to do the three-card spread for all of you folk, because it'll be Laylla's birthday, and so we'll we'll add a little birthday vibe into there. As long as Laylla reminds my stoned brain to do this at the end of January, we'll do another three-card spread for going into February. So, so yeah, wait for it. It'll be fun.

Laylla: But it's just, you know, it's a lot of fun to use technology for something as old school as tarot. You can even use technology to kind of play around with that and to to personalize it and to make it make it something all your own.

Chelle: You know, there's there's been talk, and I've seen on different forums of people saying, "You know, well, if you use AI, it's not legitimate. Those aren't real tarot cards." You know, everybody who listens knows that I am change is not my friend. And even I'm getting into the AI tarot because what is the difference if you're sitting there with colored pencils and a piece of paper or if you're sitting there typing stuff in to an AI program? That is still your personal creativity. It is still your intention. Like, we just were talking about the Lovers card. We were talking about the the the qualities we think make up the Lovers card. So, it's it's your intention as an artist, and whatever platform you are using to get your art out there, it shouldn't matter. Art's art, whether you're using colored pencils, paint and brush, or AI programs. It's all the intention into it, and I love it. And as a tarot addict and collector, it just gives me more cool tarot decks to add to my collection.

Laylla: I don't see myself as an artist. Using this AI, I don't see myself as the artist. I see more myself as questioning chaos. I see AI as kind of a type of magic. It's a type of randomness. It's it's I cannot tell the AI exactly what I want it to do. We gave it some suggestions for that Lovers card, Chelle, and as you saw, it did not take them literally. It came up with its own ideas. And when we said couple, quite a few of them were were male-female couples, but there was a couple female-female couples in there as well. And the AI will just randomly choose what it wants to do. And so, when I'm making my tarot cards, I I craft prompts with with magical intention with the idea of seeing what chaos comes up with. I'm not creating it. I'm just kind of doing a spell.

Chelle: It's not your interpretation of that particular thought. It's AI's interpretation of your particular thought.

Laylla: Or what I call it as chaos. It's chaos's interpretation. So, I am pulling order from chaos. I'm I'm doing a spell every time I create a tarot card, and then I hone it and refine it uh using traditional art tools. So, I don't I don't think this is ever going to replace artists. It's different. It's kind of like back in the day when they thought cameras would replace uh paint and pencil artists, and it didn't. It's just different.

Chelle: But as a 30-year tarot reader and tarot collector, I would just as quickly buy a deck that was AI-created as I would one that was artist-created with painting or pen or what have you.

Laylla: It's the intention behind it, and and it's what you're looking to get out of it. And different, like you said, different decks are going to resonate in different ways and with different people. And for me, I love reading for people professionally. I have had a wonderful time and a great career doing that for people. And you've done it. We have we have we love reading for other people. And I forget I'm stoned. I forget where the fuck I was going with this. But um but reading for yourself is also a fabulous thing to do with tarot cards. And so, wherever you can get those cards, whatever works for you to unlock your subconscious and to kind of help you get in touch with that, doesn't really matter who created it or what created it.

Chelle: Absolutely. So, I mean, I just I just wanted to put it out there because I know there's been a lot of questions lately, but I think there's just as much value in these AI artwork decks as there are in traditional artwork decks.

Laylla: There's beautiful artwork out there, and I highly encourage people to seek out, like this Tarot Hecka deck and your 420 deck. Those were created by artists, and they're not a big commercial run.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: Those are the ones that I I vibe with the most. Those are the ones that I find have the most value to me, the ones that were created more personally, I think, or crafted more carefully, and and um there's there's Less mass-produced.

Laylla: Exactly. There's There's always going to be a high demand for that because of the quality from artists, whatever type of artist they happen to be.

Chelle: Right, right. Keep them coming, people, because I love tarot, and I want more.

Laylla: Right? Me, too. Me, too. So, I'm I'm really loving this resurgence of astrology and tarot and witchcraft everywhere.

Chelle: Am I turning Am I turning you into a tarot collector? Because I feel like I feel like you're you're getting more and more decks on hand.

Laylla: You know, it seems like in my life, I started out with the one deck my grandmother gave me, and I read with that for years and years and years and years and years before I ever got my second deck. And then I had like a second deck, and I used that for quite a few years. And then I got the Londa Tarot, and I used that for a very, very long time. Every once in a while, I would pick up a deck, but I would almost never replace the the main deck that I had. So, I have a a dozen or so. Not very many at all, but I would tend to get attached to a deck, and I use it for a very long time. And I think once we moved out to California and I kind of left my tarot reading practice behind, I I stopped for a little while, and it wasn't until right before you and I reconnected and started doing this podcast that I started doing readings for myself and for friends again and really getting back into it. And I was feeling that I had outgrown the Londa Tarot. I was ready for something new. And so, I'm still searching. I haven't found the replacement tarot deck yet, but I think that's why I'm starting to purchase and be given more decks because I'm actively seeking what my next partner deck, I guess, will be for a little while.

Chelle: And that's so funny because I kind of disconnected from tarot for a while, and you know I use that Witches Tarot for forever and a day. Um I use that deck so much I wore out the prints on it and had to buy a new one. So, but like, I had taken a tarot break. Everybody needs a tarot break after a while.

Laylla: You do. You do. You do.

Chelle: And I'm actually I I I when I circled back to it, you're going to laugh at me, but for the first time in my life, and I used to loathe this deck, I'm like, "Oh, that's so cliché. I'm never going to touch that thing." Rider-Waite, man. Rider-Waite.

Laylla: This is not the first time you have mentioned that.

Chelle: Am I crazy?

Laylla: It it's not. It's not because prior to starting the podcast,

Chelle: I have 150 decks, and I go back to Rider-Waite, and I've never used it before, never ever ever.

Laylla: It's reconnecting. It's reconnecting to roots. It's going back to basics. And and I think that's kind of something that people are feeling everywhere. We all want something more, something that has real meaning, something that that brings us together, that's inclusive instead of divisive. We want we want that connectedness. We want to be connected to the Earth and to each other, and and I think going back to Rider-Waite is kind of a symbol of that, you know, back to simplicity, back to the beginning, back to our roots.

Chelle: It's just ironic.

Laylla: It is. It is for someone with 150 decks of every color, flavor, style, interpretation that you could possibly have to go back to the traditional Rider Waite.

Chelle: Especially when you factor in that I've never really used it, ever.

Laylla: No, no, and and oddly that's not one that you started with. And it's not one that I really... my my original deck was a was a Rider Waite, um, knockoff, I guess, cousin, derivative, very, very similar. And that's what I learned on and used for a very long time. But when I started teaching my daughter tarot, I didn't go to the Rider Waite because I just... the newer decks are so much richer and the symbolism is so much better. But that's not to say that she won't get back to it, you know. I'm not surprised someone like you who has such a varied history and such a long history, you know, you might want something traditional.

Chelle: Apparently, apparently you do. How's it working for you? You liking it?

Laylla: I do. And I kind of laugh at myself at the fact that I do.

Chelle: Just because, you know, who would have thought?

Laylla: Who would have thought? Yeah. It's a surprise, definitely a surprise. So I think that, I think that's it for our Ghosts of Christmas Future, talking about the future of tarot and paganism.

Chelle: And I'm really excited. We're going to go into 2023 and we're going to bring you guys a lot more tarot-y type stuff. Like I said, we're going to try to do a monthly spread, and we're going to try to talk about some tarot a little more, and maybe have some tarot giveaways as the year progresses.

Laylla: So lots coming up new for you in 2023. Thank you all so much for sharing 2022 with us. This has been a wild ride. Thanks again to Darlene and Kalen for joining us. Badass best friend stoned witches are always welcome to hang out on The Stoned Witches Hour.

Chelle: Guess what we're going to start 2023 with?

Laylla: What?

Chelle: Episode 50!

Laylla: No way! Episode 50! That'll be our first one for 2023. How epic is that?

Chelle: So yeah, yeah, first episode for '23 is going to be episode 50. So again, we're going to have a lot of new stuff, we're going to shake it up a little bit, and we're still going to be high, so pack your bongs and grab a comfy blanket because we're still smoking.

Laylla: So enjoy your last week between the 26th and the 1st. Nothing counts. Try to be at least a little good. We will see you after the New Year. Be safe, be healthy, stay high, and stay happy.

Chelle: Pack a bong for us on New Year's Eve, folks, because we'll be packing one for you.

Laylla: Oh yeah, we'll be ringing it in with some kind bud. Happy New Year! We'll see you on the other side of 2023.

Chelle: Happy New Year!
