Speaker 1: You need to do an intro because have I got something to show you.

Speaker 2: Me too. We're both sitting over here like, do the damn intro. I got something cool.

Speaker 1: I keep looking at it. I'm like, I want to say. I'm like, I can't say anything till she has a fucking intro.

Speaker 2: All right. All right. All right. Let me put my serious face on. Hold on. It's witchcraft. Hey, it's 4:20 a.m. Hi, and welcome to episode 61 of The Stoned Witches Hour. On this podcast, two ganja smoking witchy goddesses get together to tell each other creepy tales of paranormal happenings, ghastly ghouls, and haunting true crime. Getting higher than a proverbial kite, I'm Laylla.

Speaker 1: And I'm over here getting We had a listener that that What do you call us? Getting higher than a rhino.

Speaker 2: Oh, yeah. He smoked enough to kill a rhino.

Speaker 1: I'm over here smoking enough to kill a rhino tonight, folks. Like rhinos are dying from trying to keep up with smoking what I'm smoking tonight.

Speaker 2: Yeah. Well, I can barely contain myself, Chelle, because I want to show you something. So, before we get into mine, what the fuck are you smoking?

Speaker 1: Okay. This I First of all, this is almost half a story in and of itself. So,

Speaker 2: You have something to show me, too?

Speaker 1: I have I have a I have a couple of things and one of them is what I'm smoking, and half of it's just a name. So, remember Remember last week when I told you I veered off course and hit and and kind of stumbled upon a new store?

Speaker 2: Yes. And they were very very cheap, and you were loving it.

Speaker 1: We all know. You have known me for so many decades. You know that sometimes I have gone quantity over quality.

Speaker 2: Oh. Oh, absolutely. You are a size queen. It's true.

Speaker 1: But this it was high quality, high quantity, low low prices.

Speaker 2: Those are all my favorite things. Chelle, what have you got?

Speaker 1: Who's smoked enough to come up with this name, okay?

Speaker 2: Well, you and I have gotten pretty high and come up with some pretty wild names. So, hopefully it's as good as something we come up with.

Speaker 1: You know, this is this is actually not something you and I would have come up with. This is something that probably the men in our lives would have come up with.

Speaker 2: Uh-oh. Good thing we have a not safe for work rating.

Speaker 1: This is This is called banana puddin tang.

Speaker 2: Oh, okay. Yay.

Speaker 1: I must I must I must note that I am saying this properly. It's not banana puddin tang. It's puddin tang. Ends with an n. p u d d i n t a i n Banana puddin tang.

Speaker 2: puddin tang puddin tang

Speaker 3: who looked very imposing and in stone, but on top of it was just built a little wooden concession stand and it was a picnic area for people to come on the park to hang out by the lake. It was never a castle, not even a grand house. It's just a picnic area. And when the concession stand burned down, they just never replaced it. No one died there. There is no lady. There was no great lady. I'm pretty sure from all the research I could do and and I corroborated this again with the historical society in Irondequoit, which is right next to Rochester. And while I could find a lot of people that were told the story, most people were told the story either by a parent to get them to stay inside their tent when they went camping or to not go there with their boyfriend or they were told by a um a brother or a sister to scare the pants off them.

Speaker 4: Right. Right.

Speaker 3: But I could not find any firsthand accounts of anyone seeing a ghost there. Just slightly different versions of the same kind of story that's always been told. So I'm pretty darn sure that this is a dud. It's just an urban legend that grew up around possibly the castle and possibly because it was a makeout spot in the '60s and '70s.

Speaker 4: Every everything goes back to a makeout spot, a dating spot. Let's go park.

Speaker 3: Right? Exactly. So I was kind of disappointed that my Lady in White story here was just a big flop.

Speaker 4: Right.

Speaker 3: And then I remembered that not too far from here is a cemetery where I actually had a paranormal experience. Well, someone I was with had a paranormal experience.

Speaker 4: Oh.

Speaker 3: So when I was in I think it was in middle school, not even a teenager probably, maybe a tween, I was at a sleepover at a friend's house and a bunch of us were together and she had an older sister who decided to take us all out to a cemetery in Penfield, New York. This cemetery was home to a very mysterious headstone of a woman named Matilda Gillette. Matilda or Tilly as she was called lived between 1859 and 1936 as it says very clearly on her headstone. But shortly after she was buried there, in the granite of the headstone, a woman's head appeared. A face appeared on the granite.

Speaker 4: That's weird.

Speaker 3: Right? So the family tried to buff it out and it came back.

Speaker 4: Oh, weird.

Speaker 3: And then weird things started happening there. Like a boy spit on it and then he tripped shortly after that and broke his arm. Another boy kicked it and then later that same day broke his leg.

Speaker 4: Oh.

Speaker 3: I know some people would talk about having parties there and I know some people would like pour alcohol on the stone kind of laughing. One guy in particular who said he did that the very next day he caught like the worst case of the flu ever. He was like puking. He could not keep food down for like a whole week.

Speaker 4: Ah.

Speaker 3: So the theory is I guess Tilly had a bad relationship with her husband and he had died before she did, but she still never forgave him and she vowed to like haunt him forever, I guess, which doesn't really make sense since he died first, but that's how the story goes. Shortly after she died, that face appeared. I'm going to share my screen with you again so you can see this cuz it's really freaky. And of course, my friend's sister is regaling us all with all the times that she or her friends have been to this stone and something weird has happened. We don't all entirely believe it. So we get to this cemetery and we we're walking around and here's here's the Gillette stone. Can you see this here, Shell?

Speaker 4: Yeah. What is

Speaker 3: Like this is her hair. This is her neck. She's looking up.

Speaker 4: I see it. Yeah. Oh, that's weird.

Speaker 3: Right? So you can clearly see her face. So when we went there, we all kept daring each other to touch the stone or to go up to it and I wouldn't. I could feel a vibe.

Speaker 4: Right. Right.

Speaker 3: It it was different. Now at this time I had started being a you know, I was a wannabe photographer and I was big into taking black and white photographs and and doing all sorts of you know, pictures like that in graveyards. Most of the time I wasn't scared. I liked graveyards. They didn't creep me out or anything, you know. It was just a a quiet nice place to be for me. So it wasn't that I was in a a graveyard and I was spooked. This grave and gravestone definitely had an aura about it. I wouldn't say evil or bad. It was just really really creepy and felt like something was there. So I wasn't going near it and you have kind of disappeared.

Speaker 4: That was weird.

Speaker 3: What happened?

Speaker 4: I don't know. You were talking and all of a sudden it shut off and just said connecting.

Speaker 3: That's so weird. So I showed you the face.

Speaker 4: You showed me the face and then you said that you didn't like the vibe, so you wouldn't touch it. You're getting kind of sketched out.

Speaker 3: Yeah, so I was totally sketched out, not going to touch anything. I'm not going there. So my friend whose sister had brought us there she was kind of a badass. She might be a little bit of you. And so she went right Except I don't think you would have been this dumb even at like 12 or 13 years old. She went up to this tombstone and said something basically to the effect of I don't fucking believe in ghosts and slapped the face.

Speaker 4: Oh shit. Yeah, you know, no no.

Speaker 3: I could feel it. It's like a bell rang in the cemetery and I could feel the reverberation go through my body. I can almost feel it now just talking about it.

Speaker 4: I hope you ran.

Speaker 3: It's strange because one of the kids with us did and it literally was not physically that loud. When she slapped the stone, it was just like a slap sound against the stone, but it was almost like the air rang like a bell. It was very very strange. And one of my friends kind of fell backwards and took off. He was that scared. Anyway, so nothing else seemed to happen and we kind of continued to tease each other as we're leaving the cemetery. Just before we get to the car, my friend screamed and put her hand up to her face. I look at her as she's screaming and her whole side of her face flushed bright red. Just one side and it was the weirdest thing. We're all like what happened? What happened?

Speaker 4: It slapped back.

Speaker 3: I thought maybe she'd gotten stung by a bee or something. No fucking joke when that redness went down, she literally had a welt fingerprint on her face. Like someone had slapped her back across the face.

Speaker 4: No, that's not a find ground and find out moment nothing is.

Speaker 3: I have never seen a ghostly repercussion that fast probably before or since. It still to this day blows my mind.

Speaker 4: When the welt came

Speaker 3: The welt came and it looked just like a fingerprint.

Speaker 4: Oh shit.

Speaker 3: Five fingers and all.

Speaker 4: Oh shit.

Speaker 3: Yeah, so we never went back.

Speaker 4: She kind of cursed herself on that one.

Speaker 3: She really did. So the white lady was kind of a flop, but it's not too far from the Penfield cemetery where you can go see the face in the grave on Matilda Gillette's grave. And I'm not exactly sure what the curse is, but the face is definitely there and it seems to keep coming back despite the fact that they have changed the stone more than once and they keep trying to buff it out. But I would not fuck around and find out with it because that one's pretty potent.

Speaker 4: Yeah, right. Jesus. Wow.

Speaker 3: So there's my stories for upstate New York and I I swear please someone send me a direction to go in so I can spare Shell the like 50 million Lady in White ghost stories I have lined up.

Speaker 4: Lord.

Speaker 3: Or or she's going to just start talking about orbs again, I think.

Speaker 4: Right? I'm so disappointed in this Lady in White story. I am ready to go in a different direction, I think.

Speaker 3: You know, I came across this place called the Old Pink House. This is down in Savannah, Georgia.

Speaker 4: Chelle, I'm sensing a theme here. We've got the banana pudding and a pink house.

Speaker 3: And a pink house.

Speaker 4: Or am I reaching?

Speaker 3: It's spring. I'm Twitter pated. What are you going to do?

Speaker 4: This house actually predates America, folks.

Speaker 3: What?

Speaker 4: A pink house that predates America. This house was built in 1771 and

Speaker 3: And they painted it pink?

Speaker 4: Well, actually no and there's a story that's part of it. I'm getting there. It is pink, but they didn't paint it pink, but it is pink. It was actually a Gregorian style mansion. Like I said 1771 and

Speaker 3: Okay.

Speaker 4: I can't remember the year, but there was Have you heard of the big Savannah fire where like pretty much all of Savannah, Georgia burnt to the ground?

Speaker 3: Oh yeah. Yeah, I have heard of that.

Speaker 4: This was one of the only buildings in the whole city to survive.

Speaker 3: Oh wow. Okay. So very old house and it survived the Savannah fire?

Speaker 4: It did, but that kind of plays into some of the hauntings. It was the originally the home of Joes Joseph Habersham. How do I get the bad names that I can't pronounce? Joseph Habersham. He built this house originally, like I said, 1771 and he lived there until he died in 1802. First of all, one of the stories goes that he hanged himself in the basement.

Speaker 3: Oh, that's gruesome.

Speaker 4: So there's that and and you know, people who go in tragic ways tend to

Speaker 3: Leave a residue.

Speaker 4: Right. Right. He kind of had a weird story that is sad. This guy was like a big huge monarchist. Came over from England. You know, he came to America. He supposedly sent the first bales of cotton back to England. Very loyal to the crown, very very loyal and was very proud of it.

Speaker 3: Okay.

Speaker 4: So he had two sons and his fate would have it. His sons were a part of the opposite side of the Revolutionary War. It kind of came down to fathers against you know, father against sons and sons against father.

Speaker 3: Yeah.

Speaker 4: So it is one of the the themes goes cuz you know how some of these stories are. You get different views on it. So one of one of one of the stories was he was so distraught by the sons, which back then that was kind of life changing, that he just you know, got a rope and that was that.

Speaker 3: So the the theory is that he was so upset that his sons were on opposite political sides that he offed himself in the basement.

Speaker 4: Well and it probably didn't help that his sons ended up on the winning side.

Speaker 3: Oh, got you got you got you. Okay.

Speaker 4: You know, that that's kind of a a buzz kill. You know, when you're when you're trying to sway your children and make them do what you want to do and then in the end your children are right, you know, that's a tough pill to swallow.

Speaker 3: That's true.

Speaker 4: And you know, this guy had a hard time. So you know, he hangs himself in the basement and then his other one of his sons takes over the house. Then there's the fire, the great Savannah fire. Currently there's a tavern in the basement. So picture this basement made out of stone, huge enough to present day have a have a bar there basically.

Speaker 3: Okay.

Speaker 4: They kind of used that because it was one of the only buildings left standing. They kind of used it as like a triage center like a like a makeshift hospital and a lot of kids that were brought there from one of the orphanages that burned. Um the children died there.

Speaker 3: Oh. Oh damn. I can't even imagine like during this whole like the whole city's fucking burning. How terrified everyone must have been and then to bring the wounded to this place.

Speaker 4: It sounded like um a lot of patients, whatever you want to call them, that were brought there were kind of mainly children

Speaker 3: Mhm.

Speaker 4: and unfortunately

Speaker 3: Makes it even sadder.

Speaker 4: That they were from a nearby orphanage and so you know, these kids kind of didn't have a chance because you know, orphanages back then they there was no you know, fire escapes and there's probably one entrance, several floors, lots of stairs.

Speaker 3: No. And honestly, the kids at that time were not the priority of the people that were there. So they probably weren't even trying, you know?

Speaker 4: And also some of the folks that were trying to fight the fires that had succumbed to whether it be the smoke. You got the guy that hanged himself. You got a bunch of kids that died there because of the fire. You got some firemen um that that died there. So as you can imagine kind of unpleasant happening is going on here.

Speaker 3: Yeah.

Speaker 4: It had then been converted over the years um into a tavern in the basement. That is actually still the case today. There is a restaurant/bar in the basement in kind of a B&B on the top. But what happened with the color thing um you would ask if it was painted pink.

Speaker 3: Yeah, how did it get to be pink?

Speaker 4: They built this house and back you know, when they were doing these Gregorian mansions, they were built out of bricks and where this was located and where they harvested the material for the bricks was a very rich rich red color. They build it, decide that you know, they don't want it you know, the brick color, so they paint it white. A lot of those Gregorian mansions were white back then. Well, you know, in places like like where I'm located in the Northeast, bricks are bricks. You paint it white, it's white. Well, because of the richness of the red, no matter how much white paint enough of the red bled through to make it look pink.

Speaker 3: Okay, that's pretty interesting.

Speaker 4: Yeah and even to this day it is still a pink house, but in the 1930s they decided to just start painting it pink. Now it is actually painted pink, but the reason it was originally called the pink house was because from the time it was built in 1771 up until the 1930s it was literally just because the brick would bleed through the white.

Speaker 3: Oh, that's kind of interesting. I mean a little creepy given the fact of how many people you know, died there during the fire, but interesting.

Speaker 4: You know, on a on a science level makes total sense.

Speaker 3: Yeah.

Speaker 4: Preservation efforts and you know how the historical societies take over places

Speaker 3: Mhm.

Speaker 4: once they they got their hands on it it it became painted pink from there on. But when you look at pictures of it, it's just got this air of sadness about it. It kind of reminds you of we did our Mardi Gras New Orleans uh episode. It looks like a building you'd see in New Orleans. It's kind of like very square rectangly shaped, you know, nothing nothing too fancy.

Speaker 3: A Southern kind of Gothic style.

Speaker 4: Yeah, yeah. Um but the funny thing is is because the original owner Mr. Habersham um was such a loyalist, they have always since his sons died uh and it was taken over always have flown the British flag out front.

Speaker 3: Your kind of house. Well, that's that's nice to do that as a tribute to him, I suppose.

Speaker 4: Here's where the haunting is um occurring get a little creepy. Like I said, after the 1930s they made a tavern in the basement kind of a you know, they didn't call them Airbnbs back then, more of a like a hotel type thing upstairs. You know, obviously as we would expect there's going to be children, voices, apparitions, um that sort of thing.

Speaker 3: Yeah, for that many young people to die so traumatically there I I imagine there's a lot of that energy there.

Speaker 4: The most common though is actually Mr. Habersham himself. Now this is this is my kind of haunting, okay? Even right up to present day his apparitions are to the point where folks that go into the the bar restaurant even currently will actually think that they're sitting at the bar next to someone could you know how you get those like reenactors?

Speaker 3: Really? Yes.

Speaker 4: People think they're talking to reenactors. They just like turn away quick and turn back and he's gone. So you know, in that whole colonial period you know, dress to the point like I said where people think that it's it's it's actually a reenactor.

Speaker 3: But he's a very interactive ghost.

Speaker 4: He is described as kind of uh think of it as like a barfly. He just wants to sit down, have a drink and be kind of who's here, who's hanging out, what's going on? You want to chat?

Speaker 3: Interesting. You know, I'm surprised considering the legend has it that he took his own life in the basement, which is where the bar is, right?

Speaker 4: It it is, but maybe it's him not being able to let go, but coming to peace with the whole my kid picked the wrong side kind of thing.

Speaker 3: Yeah, maybe he was momentarily distraught and you know, and now he's happier, I guess. I don't know. Interesting.

Speaker 4: But here's where the kids make it creepy. There's like a bathroom in the tavern like you know, restrooms in the tavern part in the basement and then there's these restrooms upstairs. They do not allow patrons to use the ladies' room in the basement.

Speaker 3: Why not?

Speaker 4: Because as kids would they like to play pranks and and things of that nature. They lock women in the stalls and actually lock the whole bathroom to the point where they've actually dismantled the locks from the doors and somehow people still get stuck in the stalls or stuck in the actual bathroom self um to the point where they don't allow

Speaker 3: What?

Speaker 4: patrons um to use the ladies' room in the basement.

Speaker 3: No, that's wild.

Speaker 4: Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, isn't that funny?

Speaker 3: That's fantastic.

Speaker 4: They have also spotted a female ghost on the second floor kind of sobbing and and and very upset like you're like a Lady in White.

Speaker 3: Right.

Speaker 4: To the point where they will actually if if patrons say that they've heard things or whatever once they say you know, you know, I think there was someone trying to get in my room or you know, I heard someone you know, trying to open my door handle while I was sleeping. There is a code they actually use that's you know, the upstairs is all clear kind of the it's not a real threat. It's just a ghost playing pranks.

Speaker 3: Really? So they have a code to let the

Speaker 4: The staff actually have a code because like this is apparently a super active place. But like I said, visually it is the guy that people see the most, but as far as as sounds and creepy weird things it's more like a lady and a kid. And I never really kind of got the story of the lady, but as you can imagine being in in that part of the country um from the late 1700s on there were also rumors that there were slave children um in in slave adults at that location. So maybe that's what the crying woman is, but I never really caught kind of got the story on her.

Speaker 3: Wow.

Speaker 4: But imagine just being like oh, I'm going to go out to dinner. Oh, hey, can I use the restroom? Wait, I can't get out. Wait, I can't get out.

Speaker 3: I can't even that's wild and it's it's mischievous children ghosts that do that. Right. To the point where and it happens so much that they can't even allow people to use that bathroom anymore. That's amazing. We need to go there.

Speaker 4: And I guess sometimes depending on what's going on or what time of year the main entrance, the doorway can actually be slanted. You know, like a doorway is kind of square and your door is Certain times of year this is another thing I I didn't really find more information on, but most of the sightings um of the man are from October to March and between October and March is when the door is like like the doorway itself is slanted. But then from March to October the doorway is a perfect 90° square again.

Speaker 3: Interesting. Well, that's weird. I wonder if that it has anything to do with it that you know, doorways between here and there maybe. I wonder if that has anything to do with it.

Speaker 4: Well, there are theories that about you know, the wood expanding and and shrinking back in because you know, it's like hot is all get out in Savannah, Georgia in the summer time. And then let's face it. This was built in 1771. What the hell do you expect?

Speaker 3: You are. Right? Good gracious.

Speaker 4: So we're creating a bucket list here. I want to I want to check out this pink house because unlike your story I totally want to fuck around and find out and use the downstairs bathroom.

Speaker 3: I absolutely do. I mean that sounds like that sounds pretty interesting. Not only does the guy

Speaker 4: That sounds fun. Just say it.

Speaker 3: Okay, it sounds fun because mostly because it sounds like the children ghosts are just mischievous. You know, it's not like some horrific terrible thing. You know, they're kind of playing pranks. Yeah, it sounds fun. I can handle that.

Speaker 4: I mean you do have the sobbing lady, but then you got the guy who just wants to drink and chat.

Speaker 3: Yeah, I mean who wouldn't want to have a nice chat with the original owner you know, dressed in his looking like reenactment garb. You know, that would be freaking cool. I would do that. I could sit there and have some whiskey sours and you know, chatted up with what's his name?

Speaker 4: Habersham.

Speaker 3: Habersham.

Speaker 4: Until you have one too many whiskey sours and you blink and the fucker's gone.

Speaker 3: That'd be so epic. I would love that. I would love that.

Speaker 4: I'd be like wait a minute. Was I just talking to a ghost or did I get way too much Jack Daniels in this? I can't do this at the moment.

Speaker 3: Sure. That would be pretty amazing. I would absolutely love to fuck around and find out on that one.

Speaker 4: What this story actually did is it it it sparked me to find that I didn't realize how haunted Savannah, Georgia is as a whole.

Speaker 3: Oh, I imagine.

Speaker 4: I'm actually going to check out some some locations for future episodes, but like holy mackerel, it's pretty haunted down there.

Speaker 3: Yeah, the whole South I I is just crawling with ghosts and a lot of these old you know, antebellum towns cities and towns are just there's so much history there, really bad history and a lot of a lot of stuff happened. And as we know, you know, places that are sites of extreme events and yeah, trauma tend to hold on to pretty wild energy. So I would not be surprised.

Speaker 4: And a lot of these a lot of these locations especially on the East Coast were tied into the Revolutionary War, the Civil War, just kind of

Speaker 3: Yeah, the history I mean even now these places are nexuses maybe where people can feel energy and and a lot of them tend to be sites where a lot of hauntings happen or a lot of unusual paranormal activity.

Speaker 4: If we have any listeners from Georgia I want to hear some some stories because like I said, I just I just feel like I just came on a treasure trove of ghostliness down there. Like I said, I guess I just didn't realize how haunted Savannah as a whole is and this was just kind of tip of the iceberg. It kind of ghost wise, haunted wise, paranormal wise kind of had a very New Orleans feel.

Speaker 3: Ooh, I love that. I love Georgia. I've I've loved going through Georgia. Anytime I've been down there it is a beautiful place and it is one of those places where you kind of feel a vibe, you know. You go into Savannah and you feel that vibe. It's it's like the history, the past.

Speaker 4: Yeah. Different. It's different.

Speaker 3: Yeah, it's almost like the past is right there for you to reach out and touch that it's so much closer there. The past feels closer there than in other places.

Speaker 4: Well, at the Old Pink House it might just reach out and touch or lock you in the bathroom.

Speaker 3: Or lock you in the bathroom. Well, on that note thank you so much for joining us for episode 61 of the Stoned Which Is Our. I hope you have enjoyed our ghostly gooly haunts this evening. Join us next week for episode 62 and check out our other podcast Back on the Broomstick for all your witchy pleasures.

Speaker 4: Oh, I can't wait for you to just tell me about your great weed next week.

Speaker 3: I'm working my way down all nine of these. I'm about at number six at this point. Got some jack hair going. So I still have a lot of pot. I'm going to be puffing for a while this evening. So I hope you all stay high and stay happy cuz I'm going to.

Speaker 4: Keep it spooky.
