Chelle: It's witchcraft.

Laylla: Hey, it's 4:20 AM. Hi, and welcome to episode 62 of The Stoned Witches Hour. On this podcast, two wickedly high best friends get together to dish about the latest weed trends, blaze the sweet sticky icky, and tell chilling tales of ghostly hauntings, paranormal happenings, and fiendish cryptid creatures. And, finally off of her lady in white bullshit, I'm Laylla.

Chelle: And I'm Chelle, and I'm already so high that I got the munchies before we even started. So I'm eating this strawberry Hostess cake, and I'm loving it.

Laylla: That's, that's, that's a lot of food coloring. It's very pink. That's, that's quite pink.

Chelle: And it's quite delicious. You know, I'm still smoking the same weed I had last week because, as I said last week, I bought in bulk. And this shit... You are, you are laughing, you are chatting, but you're eating. I'm not going to lie. And this damn cupcake is like the best thing I have ever ate right at the moment.

Laylla: Well, I have to say, you are definitely known for having the munchies, so I am not surprised. Now, last week we were talking about having a charcuterie board of your amazing weed that you got. What was the place that you went to called?

Chelle: It was called Mission. My new shop because it's cheap and kick-ass.

Laylla: Who doesn't love cheap and kick-ass? And of course, I had gotten that big, beautiful hot box from Hotbox.

Chelle: Which was badass.

Laylla: Nine different kinds of weed. Of course, it is long gone. Very, very tasty. I loved it.

Chelle: You smoked that whole box?

Laylla: Oh, I had help. It wasn't just me.

Chelle: Gotcha, gotcha.

Laylla: I, I have totally transitioned to my beautiful new pipe that we talked about last week.

Chelle: It is gorgeous and spring-like. I love it.

Laylla: Let me tell you, you got to, you got to hit it gently because let's all remember back to the new pipe puff. You know, that, that first puff, and you're like, "Whoa, that's clean."

Chelle: Mhm.

Laylla: You know, there's cough to get off, and then there's, "Wow, I just bust a lung." So, I've been being gentle with it, but it's really nice to have brand new again.

Chelle: I also love new pieces, and I'm smoking right now out of my little tiny bubbler bong, and also my Salem, Massachusetts glass piece.

Laylla: Oh, I remember when you got that here.

Chelle: Yes, I love it so much. It's fabulous. You've been big into the silicone lately, which I love. Now, what does the actual bowl piece look like? Because when I'm buying a piece of glass, especially nowadays, you'll find all sorts of cheap and really pretty glass pieces, to the point where my husband doesn't even like to clean glass. He'll give it away or whatever and then buy a new $20, $15 glass piece because to, to him, it's easier than cleaning it.

Chelle: I'm trying to be really careful about this because it's still packed, but I'm trying to take the bowl piece out. So, I took the bowl piece out. So, the inside is like normal silicone, what you would expect. The bowl piece is a little metal insert, and it, the way the silicone is, there's like a lip here. So, when it goes in, it like tucks under the lip, so it's not like it's going to come out, you know, you're not like you have to, I don't want to say...

Laylla: Now, is that little metal cup that goes into the silicone bowl, is that, does that have holes in it like a colander all over it, little holes all over?

Chelle: Correct.

Laylla: I like that.

Chelle: You don't need a screen or nothing. I mean, it's almost like built-in screen type.

Laylla: Now, do, do those holes clog up easily? Does that little metal piece clog up?

Chelle: Probably for the normal smoker, no, but on occasion, you know how I get. You know how I roll.

Laylla: But that looks pretty easy to run through, to run through some hot water or to put a little alcohol and salt in to clean pretty easily.

Chelle: What I do is I pop it out, and I have this cleaner that I actually use. It is, it's called Grunge Off Super Soker.

Laylla: Mhm.

Chelle: And then what I do with the silicone pipe is I take some of this Grunge Off, and I dump it in a Ziploc baggie, and then I, I take the, the metal bowl piece out, I put the cap in there, I take the cap off, but put it in there. So, like this is, this what you're seeing, I know our listeners can't see this, but I'm showing Laylla, I have a Ziploc baggie full of my other pipe.

Laylla: That's pretty gross.

Chelle: It is pretty gross, but I let it sit in there for like 24 hours, rinse it off in hot water, it's like brand new.

Laylla: Nice.

Chelle: Even the metal piece, you can get like shiny brand new, like right back to literally brand new status.

Laylla: With the Grunge Off?

Chelle: With, yeah. But I've also, I've also used just hot water, it just takes longer because it's sticky resin, you know?

Laylla: Yeah, I, I use a two-step method. I use super hot water on all of my glass pieces, hot water and just regular dish soap, and then I'll go to a little bit of salt and rubbing alcohol to clean up that last little sticky bit of residue, and then back to the hot water and dish soap, and I'm done. Easy peasy.

Chelle: Well, that big, big jug of Grunge Off is only like 14 bucks, and I can use it probably like 15 or so times, so...

Laylla: And it sounds like that's a very simple method. You just pour it into a container, cover it over with that Grunge Off, and let it sit, and you're done. Whereas my method is like washing dishes.

Chelle: Right, right. But, you know, as you can see, I did this last night, and this water is like black.

Laylla: Black. Yeah, looks like you have motor oil in that bag. Now, when I buy a glass bowl, the biggest thing I look for is it has to be comfortable to hold, and secondly, the bowl piece itself, there's two things I look for in a glass bowl piece, no matter how much I'm spending on it, whether it's that $15 car piece or if it's a $200 house piece. The bowl part has to have the intake hole at the very bottom. A lot of people will get screens, or I've lately started using stems. I'll cross stems at the bottom of a too-big hole to make like my own personal little screen.

Chelle: How come I never thought of that? That's a genius idea.

Laylla: Right? Well, I started having this big pile of stems, and I have this big huge hole at the bottom of this beautiful bowl.

Chelle: And you were high one night, and you were looking at the hole, and looking at the stems, and looking at the hole, and looking at the stems.

Laylla: Exactly. So, I just kind of laid them in there like a little cross-hatch, and then I put my bud on top of it. It works fabulously. But I, I usually don't buy bowls that have that big of an intake hole at the bottom for that very reason, because you lose so much bud down it.

Chelle: Yeah, but sometimes they're so pretty. But if they're so pretty, you can't help yourself.

Laylla: Exactly. Just like this, my little pentacle piece here. It was too pretty. My husband bought it for me as a gift, so I just layer the stem pieces in the bottom. The other thing to look for is you don't want the bowl itself to be too big, and you don't want it to have that chalice shape. You know what I mean? Like bigger at the bottom and then narrower at the top.

Chelle: Right, right.

Laylla: Because then it never burns right. You want it to have a nice bell shape, and you don't want it to be too deep. A big bowl for a party is one thing, and it definitely should be bell-shaped and not chalice-shaped. Narrower at the top is bad, I guess is what my stoned brain is trying to say. You don't want the big hole at the bottom, you don't want the narrow top, and other than that, you're good to go. But if you do get the big hole, layer your stems. Easy peasy screen, and you don't have to worry about inhaling metals or anything. But, all of that aside, I am smoking a, a mutt of my own creation, I guess. So, it's a...

Chelle: Let me guess, it's got Jack Herer in it.

Laylla: You're close. Go, guess again.

Chelle: Gelato?

Laylla: Yes! It has Gelato, it's a White Widow Gelato cross.

Chelle: Ooh!

Laylla: Super tasty, super tasty. Now, here's the problem. So, I...

Chelle: What's it taste like? You say super tasty, like, like give me, give me an idea. Like is it fruity, is it, is it gassy?

Laylla: Because it's a mutt, we have several different phenotypes, and kind of like your old Grandpa Cookies, you know, Grandpa Cookies 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 10 million.

Chelle: Right, right.

Laylla: So, we've narrowed this down to four different phenotypes, and the one that I'm smoking right now is very crystalline, very purple, has a very purple, so it's like the purple of the Gelato, but the white-coated crystals of the White Widow.

Chelle: Ooh.

Laylla: It tastes very grapey.

Chelle: Now, does it really taste grapey?

Laylla: Yes, it tastes fruity. It has that sweet kind of grape taste to it, and I love it. It, it's that kind of green grapey taste, that fruity taste that I really enjoy.

Chelle: Oh my god, make me want to hop in the car and drive all the way, a hundred million miles to you to smoke this.

Laylla: Right? This is some of my favorite Gelatos, and as you can tell by my face, I am super stoned, in the stratosphere. So, I'm very, very excited. But because it's a first generation, who the fuck knows if we're going to be able to replicate this. But we're going to try, and, so I'm already calling it Laylla's Lady in White Weed.

Chelle: Oh my god.

Laylla: I'm working, we're workshopping that name. Laylla's Lady in White Weed. That's too long, but we'll get there.

Chelle: Love it. I'm, I'm, I'm still smoking the Banana Puddingtain. Lovely, it's just lovely. That's all I've got to say about it.

Laylla: Now, what does that taste like? Does it just taste like weed? Is it just green?

Chelle: It just tastes like weed. Yeah, like there's no fruity banana taste. I, I, you know, they made that shit up, totally. But the name is cute, you know, who doesn't like a little Banana Puddingtain.

Laylla: And that's getting you high as fuck from what I remember last time.

Chelle: Yeah, it is getting, getting me high as fuck, and I, like to the point where I've transitioned from strawberry Hostess cupcakes to dark chocolate-filled Oreos. So...

Laylla: Oh, wow. Oh, wow. That sounds like a really great combination. Dark chocolate Oreos and strawberry Hostess cupcakes. If that is not a high fucking combination, I don't know what is, Chelle.

Chelle: And that's what you get, that's what you get from Banana Puddingtain. So...

Laylla: Wow.

Chelle: I don't even remember. The, the jar's across the room, and I'm too stoned to get up and get it, but if I recall, it was like, uh, over 30%.

Laylla: We do love the over 30s. We don't want to pay for them.

Chelle: Yeah, my typical range. Yeah, we want a high THC for a low, low price, which you can find at Mission.

Laylla: I don't know, 250 is, that's about what you paid, right? 250 for that ounce?

Chelle: 215.

Laylla: 215. You paid 215 for that ounce? That's, that's still a little expensive for my blood. For, for a 30% THC, that's a great price, but I'm a poor bitch. I still want to pay 120, 150 tops.

Chelle: Yeah, but here in Massachusetts, that's like as good as it's getting at the moment, so, you know, you don't kick a gift horse in the mouth.

Laylla: Right. I am very much looking forward to, I have found even more craft weed grower fairs.

Chelle: Really?

Laylla: Craft pot fairs in the area, and other than the Lilac Craft Fair, I'm not sure if I'm still going to be here when the next Lilac Craft Fair is in April, but there are some other ones in the area, and I'm very excited to go check them out. I'm super stoked to meet more local farmers.

Chelle: Do you think that, um, because things have kind of picked up, um, with the legalization and, and, and the more normalcy of, of smoking weed, do you think with spring and summer, uh, headed our way here in the Northern Hemisphere, that you're going to find a significant amount more of these festivals or craft fairs, if you will?

Laylla: I hope so.

Chelle: Do you think they're going to be a lot more common?

Laylla: Um, I want to say yes, but I'm afraid, I'm afraid it's no. So, I think things are so much in flux right now because the, the market on the East Coast, particularly in places like New York, is so volatile. They're not rolling out legal weed quickly enough, and so these gray market stores and sellers are proliferating. They really need to make sure to take care of their farmers and their growers, and I'm worried that New York State is going to kind of get fed up with the lawlessness of it all and start to crack down. And so I don't know, I don't know what the future of, of these farmers' markets will be, but I love them. I want it to continue. I want to go to a weed farmers' market and listen to some music and buy some good food that's infused with fabulous locally grown pot. I want that. I want that a lot. And so I hope New York State does the right thing and keeps these around, because the way the weed market is right now without regulation is actually pretty fantastic. And I think as soon as we start getting regulations involved, it's going to hurt things and make it worse.

Chelle: You really need to come to Massachusetts and spearhead a festival. We, we, it could be like a music/weed festival. Get all the different stores to come and put up little vendors' slots where they have, yeah, like...

Laylla: Okay, I'm down.

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: We should. We can headline that, just like the Witch Festival that you went to not too long ago that we featured on our other podcast, Back on the Broomstick. We could have a weed festival that we headline.

Chelle: Right. That would be so much fun.

Laylla: And just get all the different stores and all the different farms around Massachusetts involved.

Chelle: We could have some weed influencers come, we could have some local farmers come, and local shop owners. How great would that be?

Laylla: I don't know if you remember this from last year, but I do know we talked about it on the podcast last year. They do a Massachusetts Cannabis Cup here.

Chelle: Oh, yeah. A lot of places do stuff like that.

Laylla: You know, hey, why not build a festival around it?

Chelle: Right. It should happen. It should happen. But anyway, so this weed is really good. I'm loving it. I'm scared that I'm never going to have it again. Now, are, are you in, you're, are you like in full-blown growing season?

Laylla: I am. Yes. Well, I'm in full-blown indoor growing season. Um, I have, my autoflowers are just about completed. I'm actually in the harvesting phase of my last autoflower garden, and I love them because they're very short growing period. I don't usually love the yield. They tend to be lower THC, like 27%, 24, 27% is pushing the upper limits of a, of an autoflower, which again is great for your average user. But if you, you know, if you want something super, super heavy, these aren't it. They're going to be great for during the day, but, and the yield is also lower. But they're fast, and I like them because they're fast and easy. And, and if my living situation is in flux, these are easy. But I'm also getting prepared to grow outdoors, and I'm helping family in the area who all have medical cards. Um, I will be starting some photoperiod plants that I'm super stoked about. We should put them up on the Instagram, the seed packets I sent you.

Chelle: What does photoperiod mean?

Laylla: Oh, yeah. I'm talking about two different kinds of plants. I talked about autoflowers that are the fast ones. Autoflowers don't need the light cycle to change. You can keep them on 24 hours of daylight, and they'll go from a young plant to a plant that's producing flowers all on their own, automatically, hence autoflower. And they tend to have a very short growing time.

Chelle: Isn't that what plants are supposed to do?

Laylla: Well, photoperiod plants, what they really do is as the sun, um, you know, it's springtime now, right? The days are getting longer. And then towards fall, they're going to start to get shorter again.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: And that change in light triggers the plants to flower. So, you know, you have a certain amount of daylight, and then you have darkness. And so the dark period is what triggers a photoperiod plant to flower, and that's what most plants are, is photoperiod plants. And traditionally, cannabis is a photoperiod plant, but they take a lot longer, um, particularly fucking sativas. Um, but they can take a very long time. But those are...

Chelle: She's not bitter, folks. Not bitter at all.

Laylla: They're so delicious and beautiful and wonderful, and they're so picky and take so long. So basically, the, the autoflower, you're just going against nature and forcing the light cycle that you want, whereas photo, you're just following the natural light cycle of the season. Yeah, they're both natural. The autoflowers are part what's called ruderalis, like you have Cannabis sativa, well, these are Cannabis ruderalis. So, they, they, you know what, we don't need to go there. Way too scientific for me. Yeah, yeah, yeah. It's not important. The important thing is, is yes, I'm starting to grow some photoperiod plants so that I can take clones of them, because we're going to be growing outdoors. This is going to be my first year growing a big garden outdoors, and also, um, supplying clones to, um, several friends and family that have, like I said, have medical cards that will be also growing outdoors. So, I'm very excited to get that started. But we're going to start those seeds so that they're ready to go out on the East Coast the first week of June.

Chelle: So, if you need a tester, you just give me a ring, and I will let you know the quality of your grow. How about that?

Laylla: You got it, Chelle. Once we are ready to harvest, I'll have you and your curved scissors out here in a flash.

Chelle: So, I came up with this like interesting, this interesting article, um, that, that spawned some stories for me this week.

Laylla: What did you find, Chelle?

Chelle: I wanted, I, I wanted to get your take on this because, you know, I, I do got some, some real-life stories, uh, to talk about, but there's a theme here that I think we all might be a little familiar with.

Laylla: Oh, okay.

Chelle: I started reading about a couple of different stories, and, and the more I looked, the more I found, that during this recent three-year period of craziness that we've had, people have realized that they're quarantining with, they've been quarantining with a ghost.

Laylla: Oh, I'm not, I guess that makes a lot of sense. People were spending a lot of time at home, you know, maybe you'd notice more paranormal activity given more time to pay attention, I guess.

Chelle: That, that, that's exactly what it is. You know, you're, you're kind of locked down, and all of a sudden, you realize you have a lot more spectral roommates than you thought you did. Some people come to find out, found that the pandemic was a lot less isolating than they bargained for.

Laylla: Really? You know, I would personally welcome it. Well, yeah, I mean, I imagine that would break up some of the monotony of lockdown if you have a poltergeist, you know, moving chairs around and rearranging your kitchen.

Chelle: One of the first, um, stories I came across was this, this gentleman named Adrian Gomez. And again, this is during the pandemic, so we're talking within the last three years. These aren't like hundred-year-old stories.

Laylla: Okay, so current ghost stories. I love it.

Chelle: Current ghost stories. So, this gentleman, Adrian Gomez, um, living in Los Angeles, first few days of sheltering in place, um, when the, when the pandemic started, everything was kind of fun, and, you know, we all were there. You know, you kind of baked and took walks and did stuff. Nobody knew if we were going to work or not for a few weeks. So, they're just kind of living their lives, um, in their apartment, and everything seemed to be going fine, um, enjoying the first few days of being sequestered.

Laylla: Yeah, before we knew what kind of shit we were all in.

Chelle: Right? I remember the first week I was like, "This ain't so bad." You know, and then after month seven, I'm like, "What the hell? I just want to go to Target."

Laylla: Right.

Chelle: So, after after a little bit of of, you know, nothing going on, everything fine, all of a sudden, at nighttime, their door knobs began to rattle vigorously. So loud So loud they could hear them across the apartment. And obviously, no one's there.

Laylla: Oh.

Chelle: This went on for a few days. And then one night, Mr. Gomez, about mid-April, so you figure that's what, like, when when did this all start? Like mid-March? So, about about a month in.

Laylla: March, yeah.

Chelle: So, he's about a month in now to being quarantined. He's in bed, and the nearby window shade began shaking against the window frame so intensely that despite the fact that the window was closed, the cat jumped off the bed, scared of it. So, the window's closed. It's not wind, okay? Just the shade just starts shaking against the window.

Laylla: You know, when an animal, when a pet like a dog or a cat gets nervous, that's when I start paying attention.

Chelle: And that's what that's what I was first thinking. I was like, you know, you get a cat scared, you better be looking around.

Laylla: Right.

Chelle: Now, being in LA, the guy first thought that it was an earthquake. You've been out that way. Shit shit just shaking.

Laylla: That's right. It happens. It's pretty normal. You be sitting on the toilet and suddenly the door starts rattling. Yeah, it happens.

Chelle: So, then it turned into him and his husband were lying in bed one night and started to hear distinct footsteps above their head. No one lives above them. They just kind of thought, "Uh, you know, maybe somebody broke in. You know, maybe it's a homeless person." They just kind of hunkered down and ignored it. Then their lights start blinking on and off. I would

Laylla: That sounds like something's trying to get their attention.

Chelle: It does. And they just kind of lived with it. And and this is where

Laylla: Wait. Wait. Wait. They just They were just like, "Uh, that's just a Tuesday." They just They just went with it? They didn't try to look into it or get freaked out or anything? What the fuck? I would be freaking out. I would be looking up the history of my house right then and there. Like, who died here? What kind of supernatural fault line is this house built on? Did they just remove the headstones? I mean, come on. You wouldn't look into that? I would.

Chelle: No, like, that's Like, like to the point where they just were like, "Yeah, you know, we just We spent the next however long, you know, two and a half years hanging out with."

Laylla: Just living with it?

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: Okay. Okay.

Chelle: Like, literally, that's That's That's where their story ends. They're just like, "All right, this is it. We're living with it."

Laylla: There are some people who are so determined to ignore this stuff that they will just kind of

Chelle: Live with it.

Laylla: Live with it and pretend like it's not happening. Make excuses for it, I think.

Chelle: Well, honestly, this gentleman, Mr. Gomez, he's 26 and he works in IT support. You know the type.

Laylla: Oh, yeah. Usually very skeptical. Yeah.

Chelle: Very skeptical and very rational.

Laylla: Right.

Chelle: And he's probably just like, "You know what? I got to work in the morning. I got shit to do. I got to smoke my pipe. I got to fix this server, and I got to go to bed and do it all over again and pick up the damn phone for stupid people who knocked the cable out of their computer. I ain't got time for ghosties."

Laylla: No time for ghosts. That's right.

Chelle: But I did I did find humor in the fact that their story just kind of ended with, "We lived with it."

Laylla: That's hilarious. That's what my husband would do. He would just ignore it and just go on about his business.

Chelle: So, then I came across another story about a a family, a a husband, wife, and their daughter who decided They were actually in New York City and decided to go spend six weeks in Western Massachusetts at an Airbnb. And, you know, I I have to drive through Western Mass to get back to New York. And Western Mass reminds you of New York. It's very wooded, kind of spread out. And it just screams creepy ghosties in my opinion.

Laylla: It really does.

Chelle: So, there was a man named Patrick Hines. He was the husband. He wakes up in the middle of the night. So, they're at this Airbnb in Western Mass. Wakes up in the middle of the night around 3:00 a.m. thirsty for water. First of all, you wake up at 3:00 a.m. That should tell you right there you're in for a Yeah. You're in for an experience already. So, he says he walked into the kitchen and saw a white man in his 50s wearing a well-worn World War II era military uniform just sitting at the table.

Laylla: So, is this one of those, "I thought this was my Airbnb reenactor," kind of people?

Chelle: Well, Mr. Hines just happens to be the host of a podcast called True Crime Obsessed.

Laylla: No. No. No. How lucky do you Wait a minute. Wait. So, this is like you or me having a ghost show up in our kitchen?

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: Oh. Okay. Tell me more. What happened?

Chelle: So, of course, the guy's interested. He said in the split in that split second when he looked at the guy, it seemed normal. That's exactly how you and I would react. We'd be like, "Hey, World War II dude. What's up?" Then we're like, "Wait, what?"

Laylla: Right. As soon as my stone brain catches up with what I just saw.

Chelle: Right. So, for him, it seemed kind of normal for that split second. And then he had that, "Wait, what?" And then when And and he quick like glanced back and the guy was gone.

Laylla: No shit. No shit.

Chelle: He said that it didn't feel like a menacing spirit at all. And he said it didn't even occur to him to like wake up the family and tell them. He just kind of went back to bed and was like, "Meh, going back to bed. Saw a ghost."

Laylla: Wait a minute. Wait a minute. How do you How sleepy do you have to be to just like completely gloss over the fact that you saw a full-blown apparition sitting in your kitchen and just go back to sleep? Oh my goodness.

Chelle: Just like, "Yeah." Well, I guess that's what happens when you're the host of a podcast.

Laylla: Hey, no. No. No. I'm the host of a podcast, and I would not fucking just go back to sleep. I'd be calling you. I'd be whipping out the tarot cards. I'd be getting the Ouija board.

Chelle: You'd be like, "Oh my god, Laylla. What's going on? He's got a message. I know he's got a message. What's the message?"

Laylla: Right? I would not be so nonchalant about it.

Chelle: I just think it's hysterical because like that's kind of the end of that guy's story, too. So, that's like two people are just like, "Meh, saw a ghost. I'm good. Got shit to do. Moving on."

Laylla: You know, I love how nowadays people are just like, "Yep, house is haunted. They're a great roommate. Things are fine." And they leave it at that.

Chelle: There was this one man, Mr. Tenney, who described his house during the pandemic. When the sun goes down, the house starts to warm up.

Laylla: Oh, damn. Oh, that's scary.

Chelle: What a way to describe it. What a way to describe it. Uh, this this gentleman, in his house, he would hear bricks pop and wood expand even though it was not getting like extreme temperatures. And normally, in other times, the house wouldn't make a sound. Just weird stuff. One lady described, um, during the pandemic, she said that there was an old woman who would sit in a rocking chair and hum all day.

Laylla: Oh, no. No. No. No. No. The rocking chair ghosts freak me the fuck out. I do not like

Chelle: You don't like rocking chair ghosts?

Laylla: No. No. For some reason, the the ones that make the rocking chairs move, I don't know, maybe it's one too many Amityville Horror movies when I was a kid, but a rocking chair that moves because of a ghost, that just No. Mm-mm. That's too scary for me. I hate those. You don't think those are like super fucking scary? I mean, come on. You wake up, you're in your Airbnb, it's all cozy, you know, you're falling asleep, and you hear creak, creak, and you open your eyes, and in the corner of the room, that old fucking rocking chair is back and forth, back and forth, all by itself. You're not telling me you wouldn't fucking start screaming, get the fuck out, and demand your money back for that Airbnb and go stay in a goddamn hotel? Because I would.

Chelle: No, because rocking chairs make me think of grandmas. So, I think there's somebody's grandma just sitting there. And how how threatening is a grandma?

Laylla: Yeah, but it's somebody's like creepy grandma who wants to scare you and eat your soul. It's not a nice grandma.

Chelle: How do you know? How do you know? Did you ask if they wanted to eat your soul? Maybe they just are like feeling like they miss their grandkid and are trying to

Laylla: Uh-uh. Uh-uh. How many movies have you seen where the rocking chair ghost was good? How many, Chelle? Tell me.

Chelle: Well, I can't think of any.

Laylla: Exactly. That's my point. They are never good. They never have good intentions. So, I'm sorry. Granny ghost

Chelle: This coming from the person who loves Lady in Whites.

Laylla: I do. I do. I love them. And orbs, those are my favorites. Rocking chair ghost, not so much. So, anyway, sorry. Keep going.

Chelle: But but I I the thing is is that this woman, uh, Janny, I'm probably saying the name wrong. You know how I am with names. Janny Cowan, she came across a ghost that she started calling Matthew. You want to know why she started calling it Matthew?

Laylla: Why'd she start calling it Matthew?

Chelle: Because it was a good biblical name, and she chose it in hopes it would keep him on his best behavior.

Laylla: She's like, "Well, you can come here, but I'm giving you a good Christian name so that you'll behave yourself."

Chelle: Pretty much.

Laylla: Did that work?

Chelle: So, Matthew, as he is known, um, likes to run up and down the staircase at night in her house. And she has said that this is not like house settling or cats walking around. It is clearly a ghost running up and down the staircase. And she describes it as he's just out to get attention.

Laylla: Oh, wow. Well, you and I have both heard the difference between a creaking staircase and the distinct sound of someone walking up and down a staircase. They're two different things.

Chelle: Right. Right. Right.

Laylla: Right.

Chelle: Um, but Matthew, um, doesn't seem to have, you know, any, "I'm going to eat your soul," intentions.

Laylla: Maybe because he has a good biblical name, he's behaving himself.

Chelle: But what Matthew does do is sometimes that, um, when people are in the guest bathroom, all of a sudden, like Okay, so you you you got to pee. You go in the bathroom. All of a sudden, the shower will just blast water out for like four, five seconds and then stop.

Laylla: Really? What is it with ghosts and showers? How many ghosts have we heard of that turn on like the showers in a hotel room or something like that? Why do they do that? Is it the water thing?

Chelle: And what has happened is there's been a couple of times where guests who've used that bathroom, when they were in the shower, were blasted with cold water. And when they've brought plumbers in, they've found that the hot water line had been turned off.

Laylla: Wow. That's That's pretty freaky.

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: That sounds vaguely demonic.

Chelle: Yeah, right? There was another woman, um, named Madison Hill. She was actually originally from the United States, but right before the pandemic, she went to Florence, Italy. And a few weeks into quarantine in Italy, she would wake up in the in the morning and find things on her nightstand that weren't there the night before. One time, she found a camera lens that she had brought over from the United States but had lost it as soon as she got to Italy and hadn't seen it since. Woke up in the middle of the night with it on her on her bedstand.

Laylla: So, it's like a crow ghost, like bringing her presents of things that she's lost?

Chelle: Yes, because other small objects, including sets of keys, um, have shown up or been moved around. There's been reap- reappearance of, um, you know how sometimes you'll like lose a lighter or you might lose like a wristband or something.

Laylla: Oh, yeah. Hey, the house I'm staying in in New York has is known for doing that.

Chelle: So, things will just randomly disappear and then months and months later reappear on her bedstand. And it it seems to always appear on her bedstand. So, it's almost like something's going out and finding her stuff and bringing it back to her.

Laylla: That's fucking wild. I love that.

Chelle: That's like this meme I see on Facebook all the time. "If you're going to do all that shit, can you mop the floor while you're here?"

Laylla: Why don't ghosts ever clean up, man? If you have ever had a ghost in your house that did chores, please email us at thestonedwitcheshour@gmail.com.

Chelle: And let us know what their hourly rates are.

Laylla: Right?

Chelle: The poltergeist or fay activity or ghost activity or I don't know what activity, um, has continued in this house, including my daughter's credit card got stolen right off the desk.

Laylla: This is still happening?

Chelle: It's still happening. She looked for it for days and could not find it. And it finally appeared in a box that's under her bed in the middle of the floor under her bed. The credit card appeared in that box under some clothes.

Laylla: That's like the 10th time that's happened to you guys in that house.

Chelle: Yeah. And I I don't know what's up with this house, but it loves to take things and then will eventually allow you to find them. But it takes a while, and it always comes out in some weird spot.

Laylla: Then you are having the same exact experience as this young lady is having in Italy.

Chelle: Yeah, and apparently, we're just ignoring it, too.

Laylla: But, you know, it's all fun and games. Why kick them out? Why exorcise the demon? Let them take your shit and play with it. No harm, no foul.

Chelle: Exactly. Why not? They're not harming anything. It's just Matthew. You know, I'm just a fuck around and find out kind of girl, so.

Laylla: See, you should come over before we leave this particular spot. Come on over, and we'll do the Ouija board thing.

Chelle: Oh my god, yeah. Yes, yes, yes. So, those are my kind of pandemic quarantine people are people are coming across things more. And, you know, I think what it is is less outwardly communication, kind of more in tune with your surroundings. You're home more.

Laylla: Yeah.

Chelle: How many people have spent more time at home in the last three years than ever in life?

Laylla: Exactly. They're going to see things that they never saw before. And and, you know, as we have found before, if you do some type of renovation or if you make some type of change to your routine or change to the home, that very often will stir up some type of energy or things to happen where it might not have before. And how many people did home renovation projects?

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: While they were home. Or just the fact of now they're home during the day whereas before they were gone all the time.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: Be enough to disrupt the energy in some of these more sensitive places.

Chelle: Or even to the extreme of people who were working overnight shifts are now home at night.

Laylla: Right, exactly. And now they're there to see it.

Chelle: Right. Right. But I think that that people are a little more in tune. They're a little more present and can kind of hear and see more than they've ever heard or saw. I don't think that there's an uprise in in ghosty activity. I think there's an uprise in people noticing.

Laylla: I think you're right. I think you're exactly right.

Chelle: Because as we have proven over the last 62 episodes, there is no shortage of haunted locations, whether it be buildings, physical land, people who have spirits attached to them. So, I just think it's not that it's happening more. I just think we're more aware and noticing it more. That's really my story.

Laylla: I love it. I love those stories. Those are so fun.

Chelle: But I just thought I just thought it was interesting that that so many people were having like these pandemic experiences with ghosts. "No, this ain't new. You just started noticing, fools."

Laylla: Exactly. Okay, so have I got a story for you, Chelle. This is a little true crimey. We are going to Carmel, Indiana.

Chelle: I feel like I've heard that.

Laylla: Maybe. I know there's a Carmel, California.

Chelle: Maybe I just like caramel because I'm stoned.

Laylla: Oh, yeah, and you are kind of hungry. That's true.

Chelle: I am.

Laylla: Okay, so we're going to Carmel, Indiana, which is actually kind of outside of Indianapolis, to a place called Fox Hollow Farm. And unfortunately, Fox Hollow Farm is famous because of a terrible, terrible serial killer that lived there.

Chelle: Oh, shit.

Laylla: Oh, yes. I'm not sure when Fox Hollow Farm was built or any of that, but it is a very large 18-acre estate with a big, beautiful house on it, five bedrooms, has an indoor Olympic-sized swimming pool, you know, horse stables, the whole nine.

Chelle: I'll take it.

Laylla: Right? Gorgeous. Forests on the land and everything. Absolutely stunning property. Well, it was purchased in the early '80s by a gentleman named Herb Baumeister. And Herb and his wife, Julie, were kind of like nouveau riche. They had recently made their fortunes because Herb had borrowed some money from his mother and purchased a store, like a thrift store, I believe. And that became very popular. He soon had several of these stores. I believe they were in the Indianapolis area.

Chelle: Wait, you mean 1980s, right?

Laylla: Right, the 1980s.

Chelle: Okay. Okay. Okay.

Laylla: This is in the 1980s. He made quite a bit of money and purchased this big, huge estate for his wife and three children. Interestingly, the news articles and the documentaries that I've seen all kind of try to paint Herb as this kind of quiet, shy, nerdy guy that nobody would ever suspect was a serial killer.

Chelle: That's how they always are.

Laylla: Yeah, but if you dig a little bit deeper and actually talk to people that knew him, they're all like, "Yeah, he was creepy as fuck." The guy couldn't keep a job. He'd been diagnosed as schizophrenic and was supposed to receive treatment but never did. His dad tried to hospitalize him for schizophrenia shortly after his marriage, and he wouldn't stay. He did things like he had a job at one point, and he was discovered peeing on people's mail that would go out.

Chelle: If I worked at the DMV, I'd probably pee on people's mail, too. Let's be real.

Laylla: And I guess people even said that when he was a kid, he was obsessed with urine, and he would even say things to his classmates like he wondered what pee would taste like and would chase the boys around asking for a drink.

Chelle: That's creep- Well, like, you got issues there, pal.

Laylla: Yeah, he pissed on a teacher's desk once and put a dead bird on another teacher's desk. And he is quoted as saying that when he was younger, he liked to play with animals, and dead animals in particular, and he liked to squeeze them.

Chelle: They always say that that is a sign of Oh, that's that's usually like a sign of serial killer traits or something.

Laylla: Right. That's some of the warning traits that someone could develop into that. Um, I think there's been some question about that lately, but regardless, it's fucking disturbing. So, he definitely had issues. His wife, Julia, said that they had sex maybe five or six times in their entire marriage and had three children as a result of that. But they had a very cold marriage from what everybody said, and the facts say that she spent, even after they moved into this big, beautiful house, she would often spend summers and long stretches of time at her family's house or at their lake house at a different location.

Chelle: Away from him, basically.

Laylla: Away from him, correct. So, even though he's portrayed in some news articles as being a devoted husband, just quiet and nerdy, it sounds like the reality was he was really, really weird and had a terrible relationship with his wife. While they're living here, you know, the wife gets home with the children after spending several weeks away, um, springtime, and one of her children comes into the kitchen holding a human skull.

Chelle: What?

Laylla: And says he had found it just out back of the house in the woods.

Chelle: Oh my god.

Laylla: Herb immediately says that the skull was from a, um, you know those like bones that doctors sometimes will have in their offices, those skeletons?

Chelle: Yeah, like the Halloween decorations.

Laylla: Yeah, like the Halloween decorations of like a skeleton, but they'll have like real ones.

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: Herb told his wife, he quickly took the skull away from his kid and told his wife that his father had been a doctor and that it was one of his skeletons from his office and that he had decided to bury it out back.

Chelle: I don't know. I've been married a couple times and I I'm pretty sure I found out long before then that what what what my father-in-law did for a living. That's kind of sketch.

Laylla: Julia thought it was a little sketch as well, particularly because not too long before this had happened, the police had come to her house and asked to search the property, and she had denied them. After this,

Chelle: Now she's wishing she hadn't.

Laylla: Herb leaves to go on one of his many road trips for business, and she decides to call the police and allow them to come search the property. Lo and behold, they find thousands of bones.

Chelle: Oh my god.

Laylla: They immediately find nine corpses dismembered in various ways across the woods in the back of the property. They found several different pieces in the stream, and quite a few of them buried under a compost pile, and some smaller bones burned in a burn pile closer to the house.

Chelle: So, he had killed a lot of people then.

Laylla: He'd killed a lot of people. He then disappeared, turned up in Canada, and committed suicide in Canada.

Chelle: Now, where who were these were these people? Were they homeless people? Were they prostitutes? Like, missing persons? Like, who are these people?

Laylla: So, in the mid-90s, in about 1993, in Indianapolis, uh, reports started coming out of young men in the gay community there disappearing.

Chelle: Oh.

Laylla: Quite a few of them disappeared. And that's when, um, one young man said he had been assaulted by a man named Brian Smart, who had taken him to his employer's house that had a big old pool in it. The man, Brian Smart, had assaulted this young gay man, and he'd only come to afterwards. Um, he doesn't know how. He just remembers waking up and feeling very sketched out by the whole situation and managed to extricate himself from Brian Smart and get away. He says at the pool, he had seen what looked like mannequins sitting in the chairs around the pool. And he reported this to the police, but they couldn't find any Brian Smart, they couldn't find the property, they they pretty much dismissed it. It It was young gay men in the 90s. The police didn't give a fuck.

Chelle: Were the mannequins really dead bodies?

Laylla: Yes.

Chelle: Oh my god.

Laylla: So, this continued until about 1995, and that's when Baumeister's son found the skull in the woods, and then his wife started to put things together and finally allowed the police to search the property.

Chelle: It sounds like he was probably actually a closet homosexual who couldn't couldn't come to terms with his own sexuality and therefore turned into a murderer.

Laylla: Well, I think he was a murderer that just happened to also be gay, and he he definitely was closeted for sure, and I'm sure that contributed to it in some way. What he did was he would go to these bars and he would pick up young men, and he would take them back to the pool of his house. He liked autoerotic asphyxiation, and the the young man that managed to escape, going by the name Brian Smart, he had told this man that he really liked to see men's faces as he strangled them, right, up to the point of death. So, he'd cruise the nightclubs, he'd pick up these guys, he'd bring them back to the pool, and he would he would kill them there, and then he would bury them in the backyard. At first, he buried them pretty far back in the woods, but as time went on and he didn't get caught, it's theorized that he started burying them closer and closer to the house. Also, on his business, his many business trips that he would go on, gay men started showing up dead in ditches from strangulation all along I-70, which is the route that he would take on his so-called business trips. And so, it's it's estimated that he killed, um, they found 11 bodies that they could identify on the farm, and they found nine bodies along I-70 that were attributed to him.

Chelle: Holy shit.

Laylla: They had found thousands of bones and fragments of bone scattered across the property, and they have not been able to identify all of the victims as of yet.

Chelle: Oh my god.

Laylla: On the property, above the garage is an apartment, a one-bedroom apartment, that's kind of connected to the house and like on top of the garage. And some of the stories say that if he brought the young man to that apartment, they lived, but if he brought them to the pool, those are the ones that he killed. He had different places around the property that he would bring people. After his wife kind of allowed the the police to go search the property and they started finding all these remains, he took off and went to Canada, and he wrote like a really, really long suicide note, I guess, before he left. His wife has never released it, and she just says that he was very she didn't know he was that angry at her, and that's all she'll say about it. The only other thing I know about the note is that he said he was going to eat a peanut butter sandwich and then go to bed. But instead, what he did was he drove to a beach at a state park in Canada, and when he was found, his car was found parked there, and his body was found laying perfectly in front of it on a mound of sand with his arms outstretched, and he was dressed immaculately, perfectly, and the gentleman who found him said that he saw no sign of blood, but there was a ring of dead birds around his body, and his head was thrown back, his eyes were wide open, and his mouth was wide open because he'd put a gun in his mouth and committed suicide. But he had arranged his own body in a very elaborate way.

Chelle: What's with the birds, though?

Laylla: Not sure, but he has a history, like I said, of at one point he put a dead bird on one of his teacher's desks when he was younger. So, I don't know. There are theories because, of course, there's a paranormal component to this. The current residents of the home, it it didn't sell for a long time. It I guess it was an almost $3 million home, and it sat empty for a very long time because nobody wanted to go there. I mean, they found 11 bodies on the property, and there's still bones there.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: So, a couple, Robert and Vicky Graves, bought the house in the late 90s, I believe, and they bought it for about a third of its value. Again, it was estimated at that time to be about $2.8 million, and they bought it for about $900,000. So, they got a great deal, really loved the house. Things seemed fine until they weren't.

Chelle: Until they weren't.

Laylla: Until they weren't. So, they rented the apartment to a coworker, a gentleman named Joe LeBlanc. He rented the one-bedroom apartment above the garage. Now, the very first night he moved in, he says he moved all of his stuff into the apartment, and he was exhausted immediately, and he says he fell into bed and fell immediately into a deep sleep, like like this wave of exhaustion had come over him. And he didn't think it was too weird at the time, he'd just moved in. But he immediately started to have an extremely vivid dream. He says he doesn't normally have dreams that play out this vividly that he can remember. He saw himself running through the woods, and he felt like he was being chased, and he was extremely scared. He's running and running and running, and he's terrified. He said he he woke up feeling still feeling terrified to the point where he stood up and started running because he this sense of fear and dread and that something was after him was so strong that he physically got up and started running before he realized where he was, and he ran smack into a wall and almost knocked himself out.

Chelle: Oh, wow.

Laylla: Because the fear was just so strong. Shortly before he had moved in, Vicky had been cleaning the pool area. She said she was out there one night and noticed that her boys had tracked in some stones and dirt and debris around the pool. So, she got like her shop vac out and started vacuuming. And she's vacuuming along and and it stopped. You know how you get too far and you pull the cord out from the wall?

Chelle: Yeah. Yeah.

Laylla: It look It looked like maybe that had happened. She didn't think she had been far enough away, but whatever. So, she plugs it back in, goes back to vacuuming, and it happens again. Only this time, she knew there was slack in the line. But, the plug was a good foot away from the wall, even though she knew she had not pulled on it and there was enough slack in the line that it could not have pulled like that. Now, she's starting to think it's a little weird. So, she goes back and plugs it in, and this time as she walks back to the where the vacuum is, she's watching the plug, and she sees it fly out of the wall on its own and then fall on the ground.

Chelle: That is a ghost trying to tell you you are using electricity too close to water.

Laylla: Maybe that's right. Maybe that's what it was. It was trying to help her out. So, that's kind of about the same time that, um, Joe had moved into the garage apartment. Shortly after he moved in, he says another night he's sitting upstairs in in this apartment when he hears

Chelle: But I thought the garage apartment was where people who lived went.

Laylla: That's what they think. They're not 100% sure, but that is what some people The police believe everyone that was killed on the property was killed by the water, and the people that lived that went there went to the apartment. So, just a theory. But, doesn't mean that they weren't there. And so, Joe's in the apartment, and he heard knocking at the door, and he just assumed it was either Rob or Vicky, and drying his hands as he's doing the dishes, he's like, "I'll be right there." But the knocking gets louder. And he's like, "Hold on just a second, I'll be right there." And the knocking turns into banging, and his dog at this point sits up and starts looking at the door, and the hackles come up on the back of the dog's neck, and he starts growling. So, now Rob is really freaked out. So, he, you know, runs across the apartment to open the door, and just as he gets to it, the banging stops. He opens the door, and there's no one there. But his dog is going nuts, growling and barking and snapping, and he had to hold his dog back from going out the door.

Chelle: Oh, shit.

Laylla: Another time, Vicky was coming home, pulled into the driveway, her husband's in the yard, and they're talking, and her husband notices her attention is wandered and she's looking at the edge of the woods at the back of the property. He's like, "What do you see?" And she's like, "There's someone over there in a red shirt." And he just disappeared. She's like, "It's very strange, but I just saw a young man in a red t-shirt walk across the front of the woods and then disappear, but he doesn't have any legs." Now, Vicky says she's a pathologist, so she's like very scientific, does not believe in ghosts, but this sighting really freaked her out. So, her husband's like, "Maybe it was a real person," and they go to look, but of course, they see nothing. But this red-shirted young man shows up multiple times. A lot of people will see him walking in the woods, and they think it might be one of Herb's victims.

Chelle: Looking for his legs.

Laylla: Maybe. Maybe. But they've had quite a few psychics, several different, uh, shows have been out there, you know, like the paranormal investigations have been out there. The place is active, very, very active. There are EVPs that happen.

Chelle: Do they still own it?

Laylla: They still own it, and they do allow people In the beginning, they kind of tried to shoe people away, but as more and more things started happening, they've kind of started inviting They wrote a book about it. They've started inviting investigators to come on the property to look into it, and it's it's pretty active. There's a lot of freaky stuff that happens there, and they catch EVPs of these young men talking all the time. I mean, it's heartbreaking what happened here.

Chelle: You know, it almost sounds like All I can think of is that movie where everybody gets killed by the pool. But it it it sounds like this guy really kind of was so warped and crazy that he created a space that will forever be drenched in sorrow and heartbreak and ghost activity.

Laylla: Absolutely. Absolutely. And the the sensitives that have been there, they have all pinpointed the locations. You can't see them now, but they can feel the dread. They even a couple of them said they felt sick to their stomach when they walked over the spot where Herb had buried the bodies under his compost pile.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: The feelings of dread and terrible things that happened there are so concentrated in these spots in the backyard, sensitives pinpoint them easily every single time. Even people who don't know the history of the house feel a sense of unease and nausea and extreme fear in some of these places.

Chelle: Have they removed all of the remains?

Laylla: Unfortunately, they're still to this day finding bits and pieces. It's an 18-acre site, and from what they can tell, some of He would leave these bodies out there to decompose, and in the summer the spring and summer, which was kind of his hunting time, bodies can decompose very quickly, and he would then, um, try to rebury them or put them somewhere else. So, he he left them in multiple places, and animals would get to them. So, unfortunately, these remains are all over the place. So, the the paranormal ghost things are happening a lot, but one thing I do want to comment on that was a very mundane thing was the young man that actually helped catch him was this gentleman named Tony Harris. His friend Roger Goodlet disappeared, and unfortunately, Roger was one of Herb's victims. Tony was one of the few people that never gave up on Roger, and he even he put posters with Roger's face all over the place, all over these bars where Roger's killer actually

Chelle: would pick people out of.

Laylla: That's right. And he saw Herb, who was going by Brian Smart, at a bar staring at a poster of Roger, and Herb gave, um, Tony such a weird feeling, that's why he kind of approached him and allowed him to kind of take him home, or well, where Brian/Herb said was his boss's house, back to the pool. It was Tony that wouldn't let it go, and he's the one that told the police about it, told the police about Brian Smart, told them about the pool, and, you know, his concerns that this was the man that had taken Roger. And if it wasn't for that, they never would have found Herb Baumeister. So,

Chelle: Wow. Wow.

Laylla: House is still right now crazy haunted. Uh, Robert and Vicky have psychics come there quite a bit. You should look it up. Some of the EVPs are absolutely freaky. Unfortunately, these young men, you can hear them crying out for help, or they'll say, "Herb did it," "Help find me," things like that. It's it's very sad. But they do seem to be doing some investigations, trying to find who these people are. They're trying to do DNA testing and try to lay some of these young men to rest and kind of find their relatives and give them their names back.

Chelle: For how recent this was, I'm surprised I don't recall this from like mass media.

Laylla: I don't either. I don't either. And you have to wonder why. Is it, you know, because of who the victims were? But this guy, they connected him to nine deaths on I-70 and 11 bodies at his own property, and I don't remember hearing about it in the 90s.

Chelle: Absolutely not. Never heard a word.

Laylla: And they they still haven't identified all of these poor young men. And the the people that own the property, I mean, my heart goes out to them. I I would be having investigators all the time, too, because they're constantly finding piles of bleach bottles in the woods. You know, they're finding all these different stashes and even to this day still finding remains of these poor victims in the woods. And I I really hope that maybe the homeowners doing some of these shows will help bring attention to it. Maybe more people who have relatives that went missing during that time period might give some of their DNA to kind of, you know, lay it to rest. Maybe that'll help lay these spirits to rest.

Chelle: Well, honestly, if if I were in the situation, if I had a loved one that around that time, around that area had gone missing, the first damn thing I'd be doing is knocking on these people's doors with my own psychic medium saying, "Hey, can we team up to find my loved one? Because they're probably here."

Laylla: Yeah, and a DNA cheek swab.

Chelle: Yeah, you know, if I if I had a a friend or a family member that disappeared around that time and kind of fit the criteria of the victims, you bet your ass I'd be at that house.

Laylla: Yeah. Yeah. I I don't know. Again, as much as you and I are fuck around and find out kind of people, I don't

Chelle: Not everybody is. Yeah.

Laylla: I don't know if I could live in a house like that, though. Like, knowing what kind of torment and torture happened there, I don't I don't think I could.

Chelle: Yeah, you would, and you know why you would? Because you you would take it from the approach of you were going to try to help these restless souls find the peace that they're so desperately looking for.

Laylla: Aw, okay, you're right. I would. I would try to do that. You're right.

Chelle: That's exactly what you would do because you'd hear these ghosts saying, "Help me," and your ass would then be like, "All right, well, I got to help them."

Laylla: I'd be so sad. I would have to help them. There's no way I couldn't.

Chelle: So, so, yeah, I think you absolutely could live in a house like this and on property like this because you'd be the one that would be like, you'd be you'd be finding vengeance for all these folks. You'd be you'd be trying to close the door, you know, you'd be trying to

Laylla: I'd find all their names.

Chelle: finish their story.

Laylla: Absolutely. And I hope they do. I know even as recently as this year and recently last year, they have been looking to match up some of these remains with their relatives, and I hope they do. I hope they do.

Chelle: Well, my guess is, is if they're having all these investigations and having psychic mediums and people in there right now, pieces will start to come together as time goes on. It's almost like the more people that are talking, the more communication happens.

Laylla: Exactly. So, hopefully, by us talking about it, we can help bring a little bit of awareness to these people and give them their names back.

Chelle: And jeez, Indiana is like all of a sudden like the hot spot of activity.

Laylla: I know. Illinois, Indiana, all these places, whatever. So, thank you so much for joining us for The Stoned Witches Hour. I hope you enjoyed our spooky stories this week. Join us Wednesday next week at 4:28 a.m. for episode 63 of The Stoned Witches Hour, where I will yet again not be talking about a lady in white ghost.

Chelle: Thank God.

Laylla: Please send us in your ghost stories if you have any personal ghost stories. We want to hear your stories. We haven't done a your stories in a while, and I apologize if you've sent them in before, send them in again because we would love to do a book three of your ghosty stories. So, send them into thestonedwitcheshour@gmail.com or to our Instagram @thestonedwitcheshour and tell us your stories.

Chelle: I am really excited. I want to hear I want to hear some stuff that's been going on with people. We haven't heard people's stories lately, so what do you guys? Let's hear it.

Laylla: Send them on in. So, thank you so much for joining us, and we'll see you next week. Stay high, stay happy.
