Welcome to Back on the Broomstick, a modern witch's spoken word grimoire, where two witchy friends from way back are reconnecting to their pagan roots after a long period of mundanity. We're rewalking the path of the wise and trying out all the latest spells, rituals, and magical theory in today's witchcraft and pagan practices. So grab your wand and your incense, your cauldron and your crystals, and join us as we get back on the broomstick.

Laylla: Welcome to Back on the Broomstick, the podcast where two witchy best friends get together to read magical books, cast wicked spells, and interview cool pagan people. Today, interviewing Byron Ballard, I'm Laylla.

Chelle: And I'm Chelle, and this is like so exciting I could just burst.

Laylla: Oh, I am thrilled. We have been waiting for this forever, since before Sacred Space Conference, but definitely since March when we got to actually meet Byron at Sacred Space. And of course, after reading her book, Small Magics, she's just cool. I I can't wait to talk to her.

Chelle: And we also had the pleasure of being able to attend a couple of her workshops at Sacred Space. And let me tell you, if you get the opportunity, you got to sit in on one of these. Um so, let's bring in Byron.

Laylla: Byron is a teacher, a folklorist, and a writer who has served as a featured speaker and teacher at festivals and conferences, including Sacred Space that Chelle and I were recently at, where we had the great privilege and a lot of fun, to be honest, to sit in some of her workshops. She's also a senior priestess and co-founder of Mother Grove Goddess Temple and the Coalition of Earth Religions out of Asheville, North Carolina. Chelle and I would love to welcome to Back on the Broomstick, Byron Ballard. Welcome.

Byron: Um, thank you so much. I've been looking forward to this a lot. We had so much fun at Sacred Space.

Chelle: We did. We did.

Byron: That I thought, oh, this will be great. Hanging out with those gals is going to be great.

Laylla: You know, you actually gave us a heart attack before we ever even saw you at Sacred Space.

Byron: No, how?

Laylla: Well, we were so excited that you were there and we were going to get to be at some of your workshops. And as we're walking around, just kind of soaking in the ambiance and seeing everyone that was there, this lovely man approaches us and he goes, "Are you Laylla and Chelle?" And we're like, "Yeah." And he goes, "Have you talked to Byron yet?" And we're like, "Um, no. Were we supposed to?" And he's like, "Yeah. Yeah, you are supposed to. She's looking for you." And we're like, "Oh, boy." At first, we're like, "Are we the right Laylla and Chelle? Does he have the right people?" And it it was Sam. It was Sam that that we encountered.

Byron: Sam and I, we are old buddies from way, way back.

Laylla: I can see why. Fabulous. I love Sam. We're hoping to have him on at some point in the future as well to talk about metal magic.

Byron: You really should. He has a great tea shop.

Laylla: Yes, he does. Oh, my god.

Byron: That tea shop, I I just have to, for a minute, just give me one minute. I've been in a lot of tea shops in my time because I'm a tea drinker. I love tea. And he took me in on the way to Sacred Space. We went by to to load up on some tea for the trip. And it is the most beautiful tea shop I've ever seen anywhere, bar none. Just exquisitely beautiful.

Laylla: Makes me want to go to North Carolina and check it out.

Chelle: Mhm.

Byron: Yeah, please come before we elect somebody as our governor who doesn't think women have the right to vote, would you?

Laylla: Good gracious. We will. We definitely will. Hopefully, that does not happen. So, that was that was shocking at Sacred Space, to be honest. We fan-girled for a few minutes because a few months prior to that, we um actually did a review not too far back on Small Magics. So, when we realized that you were going to be at Sacred Space with us, we kind of had a fan-girl moment. And then to get there and have Sam say that you were looking for us, we were like, "Us? Who, us?"

Byron: That is so funny. I went to look at your uh Instagram today and saw, "You two were so cute about, 'Oh, we're going to Sacred Space. Look, we're going to Sacred Space.'" So, did you have a wonderful time?

Laylla: We did. We even got matching tattoos while we were there.

Chelle: We did.

Byron: No way.

Laylla: Yeah, we did.

Byron: Oh, they're beautiful. No, I saw them. You posted them on um on Instagram.

Laylla: We did. We did. We have, you know, just like the the podcast is called Back on the Broomstick, we are witchy friends from way back, and we used to do festivals and conferences a lot a while ago. And then there was a long kind of break. And so, it's really fun to get back into doing it again, especially with Chelle, and and just to have these experiences and and go to workshops and conferences and just meet cool people and learn new things, and it's just absolutely wonderful, no matter when you get to go.

Byron: Yeah, it it's really true. And Sacred Space is, for my money, it's the high-end conference.

Laylla: Yeah. Oh, yeah.

Byron: You're going to meet some not-so-experienced people, but the majority of the people there are really high-functioning magic workers. So, if you have a question, and, you know, you could pose it on TikTok and get 20,000 bad answers, but you can actually go up to somebody who's been doing this for 40 or 50 years and say, "This is my predicament. What do you suggest?" And they're happy to answer that question.

Chelle: I like how Sacred Space kind of promotes itself for the intermediate to advanced because there are those those conferences and festivals that are geared more towards beginners, and Sacred Space kind of it it sets that bar for itself, and it well meets and exceeds it.

Byron: Yeah.

Chelle: I just wish I had more time and could go to all of the workshops because too many good ones were at the same time. Right?

Byron: Yeah, that's really true. So, does this mean you all are going to start doing a little more festival and festivating and conferencing?

Laylla: Absolutely. We're both presenting at a Central New York Pagan Pride.

Byron: Oh, cool.

Laylla: Are you going to Brushwood this year? Because I'm presenting again at Brushwood. Oh, okay.

Byron: You know, I love I love the land at Brushwood.

Laylla: Mhm.

Byron: And I've been to Sirius Rising twice. For me, the point of doing festivals and cons is to really connect with other people. And if I'm not doing that, if I'm basically hanging out with my buddies, I could do that way closer to home.

Laylla: Without the 12-hour drive.

Byron: Right. Exactly. Exactly.

Laylla: But yes, we are planning on doing more. We have some workshop proposals out. We actually got a a hint from you today about Convocation 2025, so we're talking about workshops and rituals for that next year.

Byron: You should totally do it. I had a wonderful time.

Chelle: Because that was one thing that that we really liked about Sacred Space is the fact that there was actual several ritual options during the conference, not just workshops and classes, but actual ritual options during that. And that was kind of a a nice added thing that we haven't, you know, when we were doing these 15, 20 years ago, that wasn't kind of a part of the festival atmosphere necessarily. Um so, to see that added in is very very exciting.

Byron: It it is. And what I also love about Sacred Space is now they've got built-in like social time. Because in addition to learning from other people and meeting new people and doing ritual, it's really important for people like us to be able to sit down in a fairly relaxed atmosphere and say, "This is what's going on in my community. What's happening in your community? This is what's going on with me. What's going on with you?" That that keeping that connection and network going is is of prime importance.

Laylla: Especially nowadays, I think it's vital that we all keep communication open and talk a lot because so much is so much is happening right now.

Chelle: And there still is something to be said for in-person, face-to-face communication.

Laylla: Yeah.

Byron: Uh there's no substitute as far as I'm concerned.

Laylla: Now, I do have a question that does kind of relate to festivals a little bit, but I'm going to take you take you back for a minute. In in 2019, I believe, you were part of a of an interfaith panel that you said was more like four Abrahams and and one witch, you. And in in that interview, you described yourself as, quote, "a genuine tree-loving dirt worshiper," which I loved. I I very much related to that comment. Now, with that in mind, as someone who is very much an outdoors dirt-worshiping witch, what are your favorite witchy ways to feel connected to the Earth when you're somewhere that you can't really get outdoors, like like at a hotel conference, like Sacred Space, or, you know, if you're somewhere in a city where you can't necessarily go, say, hug a tree? You know, do you have any earthy, natural ways to connect?

Chelle: We have had people say, "Explain to us how how are you making these same connections when you're in the city or, you know, in confined spaces?"

Byron: I am going to take you back even farther to about 2005.

Laylla: Oh.

Byron: And there was a um there still is a religious community here in Asheville, and it it's very I referred to it as New Age Neo-Pagan Methodist. So, they were it was all creation spirituality. It was the Matthew Fox stuff.

Laylla: Mhm.

Byron: And their their leader, their pastor, had gone to Japan, and he was lamenting the fact that he felt like he had never really been on the land in Japan because he landed at the airport, he was on the tarmac, he was on concrete, he was in a car, he was on in the car going to a hotel, he stayed in a hotel. He never he was never on like raw soil.

Chelle: Like the dirt between his toes kind of thing.

Byron: Yeah. And here, I liked I liked it to this. So, if you and I were to meet, and it was wintertime, and you are in those gorgeous woods that are behind you, and it was colder than whiz, and we gave each other a great big hug while wearing our winter coats, does that mean we didn't give each other a hug because we had clothes on?

Laylla: No.

Byron: What that meant is that there was a layer of stuff between us, but spirit doesn't see that. Spirit doesn't feel that. So, to be in an urban setting, to be in a human-built environment, is an opportunity to rebrand everything you know and reframe everything you know about nature. Because we think nature is, "I'm out on the land. Oh, look, there are there are herbs, there are trees. Oh, look at the sky." All of that, it's all lovely. But if we're talking about energy signatures, they are all over urban settings. So, if, for instance, you want to cross into to cross through a liminal space and into another place, you hit the traffic signal button, and you wait for the red hand to become the little green walking person, and then you walk through that energetic liminal space to the other side. So, you can use that in the same way we would use any kind of walking a labyrinth or or uh setting up a kind of energetic boundary to walk. Everything that we can do on raw land can be done in an urban setting. We would not poo-poo uh being in Stonehenge or Avebury and go, "Oh, well, but I mean, it's not really nature because it's a built environment." No, no. As if it's an ancient built environment, then we're like, "Oh, oh, but feel the energy. It's so powerful and amazing. Oh, oh my god." So, I think it's up to it's up to humans, and it's up to pagans and witches to understand that a built environment is still a magical environment. You just have to reframe it in your head to work for you. You have to connect with the energy of the place and the spirit of the place and figure out where the spirits are. So, yes, it's easy to know where land spirits are in my backyard. You go in my backyard, and there are places that you go to them and you go, "Oh, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Calm down, y'all. Calm down." Is the same is true in a skyscraper. So, you go into a skyscraper, and is it the elevator? I mean, do spirits love to hang out in the elevator because it's always moving? Or do the spirits of that building go to the basement because they really want to be kind of in the bowels of the building? So, it requires us to work a little bit differently, but not really. It requires us to reframe in our heads what nature is. And so, the built environment is still the environment. All that concrete and steel and stone and brick, that all comes from the Earth. It didn't come from anywhere else.

Chelle: Now, that kind of segues, it's a little bit of a left turn, but it kind of segues into a question I have. Now, you are—

Laylla: She's good at that. She's good at that.

Chelle: I am good at that. Now, now, we might we might have to pause on my question, talk about some pronunciation because we've been Laylla's been getting her hand slapped. You are a, if I'm saying this wrong, please correct me, and we'll get into why Laylla and I do say it wrong. You are an Appalachian folklorist. Is that correct?

Byron: Okay. Um this is one of those, why does why do people answer a question with a question? So, the Appalachian the Appalachian range is vast. In fact, I talked I had an interview with a man on Monday who is in Nova Scotia, which is the end of the Appalachian range. I was invited to Pittsburgh, um years ago, doesn't matter when, while back. And where I live, which is the Southern Highlands, we say App-a-lach-a and App-a-lach-an. And the way to remember that is, if you say App-a-lay-cha, I'm going to throw an apple atcha. So, we say App-a-lach-a.

Chelle: Is it different in the north?

Byron: It is. So, I arrive in Pittsburgh, which is very Appalachian in a lot of ways, and they meet me at the airport, and they hug my neck, and they go, "We just wanted to really be clear that we are App-a-lay-chan, too." And so, that that kind of chill went up and down my spine like, "Well, if you are, why do you say it wrong?" But the truth of the matter is that it is a long mountain range of multiple cultures. So, in my culture, App-a-lach-a and App-a-lach-an are the appropriate way to say those words. In Pennsylvania, it may, in fact, be App-a-lay-cha and App-a-lay-chan. Uh there's somewhere else, and I can't tell you exactly where it is, where they say it with an S-H, App-a-lay-shun and App-a-lay-shun.

Chelle: I have to throw a little wrench into this and give you a third option.

Byron: Oh, good.

Chelle: I am from, originally, the Southern Tier of New York, um on the New York-Pennsylvania border. And we have a small town called App-a-lay-kin.

Laylla: That's spelled the same way.

Chelle: Oh, I've heard of that.

Byron: No, no, it's got one less P. There's only one P.

Chelle: So, App-a-lay-kin, App-a-lay-sha, App-a-lach-a. We just were getting confused. But so, now that we know that it is kind of a regional pronunciation,

Byron: Exactly.

Chelle: I'm going to segue back to my question. Okay. So, I love, especially Small Magics, awesome book. Everybody who hasn't read it really needs to go get it. But, speaking of kind of that, quote, unquote, "magic of place," how does someone take a book or some knowledge that's similar to Small Magics, um talking kind of, you know, taking some of the the Appalachian folklore and translating that to, say, city urban life? You know, what if I live in New York City but want to translate some of those small magics to my big city life? Do you have a good explanation of how to kind of transfer that Appalachian magic to your place?

Byron: Yes. And first, I'm going to say Small Magics is not Appalachian at all. It is the building blocks of a basic magical practice. You can do that anywhere. I think you assumed that because that's the way Llewellyn marketed it. So, for Llewellyn, I am their Appalachian girl. So, everything I do has to have Appalachian on it.

Laylla: I got you.

Byron: Um so, Small Magics, what is it, the Secrets of an Appalachian Village Witch? That's not my title. None of that is my title.

Laylla: Got you.

Byron: I I wrote Small Magics because I'd been teaching a class for years called Simple Practical Magic. I started teaching that because I kept running into primarily young people, but also new people who were not young, who had absolutely no idea how to practice magic. They they read thousands of spell books, and they and they can find a spell for whatever the thing is they're doing, but the things that I learned literally decades ago about grounding yourself deeply, pulling energy out of the Earth, pulling energy from the cosmos, pulling energy from all around you into you, and not using your own personal energy or your life force, you pull that energy into you, you store it in the battery between your breastbone and your belly button, and then you use that. That's what you use. Well, I would say that, and and these new people would be like, "I don't I don't understand. You mean I don't just point my $700 magic wand and say this spell that I read in a book? That's not how magic works?" "No, darling, that's not how magic works at all." So, as one does, and I know that neither of you have ever done this because it's so ridiculous, I got into an argument on Facebook with somebody. And and I was I was so exasperated, I said, "Oh my, do I just need to write a book about magical practice?" And, to be fair, my editor at Llewellyn saw that and said, you know, maybe a couple hours later, "Um, yeah, we should talk about that." So, so that is the genesis of the Small Magics book. And then, of course, I had to laugh at them because only a publisher like Llewellyn would take a concept as big as the building blocks of genuine magical practice and call it Small Magics.

Laylla: Right. Good point.

Laylla: Well, it does really does have all those building blocks in it and and things that you can do. And, you know, it's funny that you said that because Chelle and I, not too long ago, did a couple episodes on that very topic, the fact that a lot of witches are reading these spells online or in a book, and they don't they're just reading them. And like you said, pointing their $700 magical wand at their $500 crystals and not and wondering why it's not working. They don't have those basic building blocks of raising that energy, holding it, raising a cone of power, or however you refer to it, releasing, and then grounding that energy. It's it's surprising how little of that knowledge is out there.

Chelle: There's work that goes into magic. It isn't just buying magic. You have to put work into it. You can't just throw dollars at it, get your $700 wand, and boom, magic appears. You have to put the work in.

Byron: You have to. I mean, that's why we call it practicing magic. Because if you don't practice it, you won't be good at it. And there are so many people that get shocked when I say, as I do in the book and and also in that class, practice magic all the time. Don't save it for a rainy day because by God, it is thundering right now. The storm is here. And the more you practice it, the better you'll be at it. And you all heard at some of the classes I did at Sacred Space, I often begin a class by saying, we are in perilous times. And I need any of you who consider yourselves magic workers to practice all the time so that you're adept at it. Because things are moving so fast, we can't wait for you to go, "Oh no, which book was that in? I need to go pull that out and look it up." You need to ground yourself, pull energy into you, get your shields up, prepare yourself, drop your shields, and do the work. And it has to happen that fast.

Chelle: Everyday magic.

Byron: Everyday, everyday. And start with the practicalities. So, I live in a tourist town. If I'm going downtown, guaranteed I'm going to need a place to park. So, perfecting a parking spell, if you're in that situation, makes sense. Learn something first that you need. Yes, every every 17-year-old wants to conjure a demon. I don't know why, but they want to conjure a demon. Well, that's not going to do you no good if you don't know what to do once the conjuration happens. And frankly, the conjuration is not going to happen because you don't know what to do. But figure out what you need. What do you need?

Laylla: But getting a parking spot, that is an attainable goal magically.

Byron: Yes, and you can you can do your math. You can go, "Okay, I did this working, and I got a parking space. I did this working, I didn't get a parking space." So then you can do a double-blind test. You can make it into science and go, "Well, that, this is the one I'm always going to use." And you use it until it doesn't work. I have people all the time who say, "But isn't magic supposed to always work?" And I go, "No, and anybody who tells you their magic always works is either a big fat liar, or they don't do a lot of magic."

Laylla: Right. Yes. Or they're trying to get something from you.

Byron: Exactly. Because there are always times when we have to admit whatever that working is that we're trying to accomplish, it may not be our job to do. We may be negating something, a lesson that somebody else needs to learn. We may be negating the flow of history, that it has to go, it has to march forward in this way, and if you interfere with it, you are you're in for a world of trouble.

Chelle: Some things you can't interfere on.

Byron: Yeah. And I call it 1-2-3 brick wall. So the first time, I will do a general sort of ground myself, focus, do the work. If that doesn't work, the next time, I will consider the phase of the moon. I will give myself some privacy. I will walk myself through it. I'll do it and and be a little more intentional about it. And if that doesn't work, the third time, I will see where Mercury is. I'll see where the moon is. I'll see if the moon is void of course. I'll see what's happening with the sun. I'll raise an altar. I'll put on my best robe. I'll stink the place up with the worst incense you can imagine. I'll fling myself full length in front of the altar and beg the divines to do what I'm asking them to do. And if that doesn't work, if you hit the brick wall with that one, it means it's not my job to do. And I can push it and push it and push it, but it's not it's not going to work. Or if it does work, it's going to be awful.

Laylla: I absolute I'm so stealing the 1-2-3 brick wall thing because I freaking love that. Now, I am a compulsive journaler, and I have dragged Chelle along kicking and screaming. She is now also a compulsive journaler. And and I love

Chelle: I call it note-taking, note-taking.

Laylla: I love writing spells down, components of rituals, what I did, what didn't work, what did work, and just like you said, adding to it or subtracting from it. But if you don't write those things down, you're going to forget. I always tell myself, "I'll remember that chant I just made up. I will." And I don't. So, but I love the 1-2-3 brick wall because I think that's such a good idea, and I I'm absolutely going to write it down. And I'll write it down for all of our listeners too so that they can practice and try that.

Chelle: And it's also it's also good practice to know when to say when. And, you know, know when you did what you could and it isn't supposed it isn't meant to be, so move on.

Byron: Or it's not your work to do. So here you are, you're a seasoned magic worker, and you have decided you're going to take this thing on, but maybe this is the opportunity for someone who does not have as much experience to tackle a thing that seems big and hard and be successful at it. And if you go in and do it, then you, you know, whatever, one more notch on your belt. But if that fairly new person does it and is successful, then you've got another strong witch in training. And we need as many of those as we can get, frankly.

Laylla: Adding to the coven.

Byron: Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely.

Laylla: And to take it back just a little bit to small magics and and doing things every day and and helping people work their own magic, you talked in there about helping people to cleanse their space. You know, as the village witch, you get called on sometimes to help someone clear energies out of a space. And a lot of times, it's them. Chelle and I have are familiar with this.

Chelle: You're the problem.

Laylla: Yeah. They call us up, and we're like, "Oh, honey, let's sit down and have some tea and talk first." But in the book, you mention a broom thing that you have them you have that person actually go through their home with a broom from the front door to the back door, sweeping everything, especially the corners, to get that energy out, to cleanse their space. And that's something simple that a person can like you said, you gave them the tool. You said, "Here's what you need to do. This is your mess. You need to sweep it up and and clean it up with your own energy." And so rather than going into their house and being the great village witch and cleansing everything for them, you

Chelle: Here's a broom. Go clean your own shit up.

Laylla: That's right. That's right. And to me, that's more, you know, that's down-to-earth witchcraft. That's everyday magic, you know?

Byron: And the other part of that is if they do it, then they are less likely to call you three weeks later and go, "Oh, you really screwed up." Because it didn't it's not good at all. I had a situation with a woman who has now moved from the realm of matter to the realm of spirit, as we say.

Laylla: Safe travels.

Byron: She she was a bit of a psycho, frankly. Uh but but a sweet woman, a very sweet woman. So she called me and my then partner to do an energy clearing in her house. And but first, she had to talk about it for about an hour and a half and tell us all the this and the then that. So then we go through the house and do the thing we always do. And we determined she did have, in fact, some two a pair of sisters that were spirits that had built their father had built the house and they lived there. She confirmed that, "Oh, yes. No, I know all about them." Um so, you know, we did our whole spiel with her, and it was fine for a couple months. Then she contacted us, and by then, my partner was on to doing something else, and she didn't do that anymore. So I went there, and she said, "The problem is my bedroom." So I go in the bedroom, and I walk through this one area, and she had a ley line that ran through her bedroom. And it was like walking into a stream of cold water all over your body. It was very, very active. And I came out, and I said, "Well, here here's the problem. You've got a um an energy channel, a ley line, that runs through the house, and that's not unusual. We find them because the mountains here are so old, there's tons of energy lines that run across it." And she said, "Well, how do you fix that?" And I, "Oh, I don't. I mean, you live with it." And so I suggested all these really practical things like she was getting out of bed on that side of the bed, so she would get out of bed and step into this cold flow of energy every morning. And, I mean, it could be like taking a cold shower, I guess, to invigorate you, but she didn't like it. And I said, "Well, if you'll get up on the other side of the bed and come around, it'll give you a chance to kind of acclimate yourself before you step through."

Chelle: Ease in.

Byron: "But I don't want to get out of out of bed on the other side." "I don't want to get out of bed on the other side." And I and she had told me when we were there before there was another room that had some boxes and whatever in it. And I said, "Well, then if I were you, I would move my bedroom into that room." "Oh, no. No, I can't do that either." And I said, "Why can't you do that?" "Well, I mean, it would be a lot of trouble." And I said, "Well, we can get people in to help you move everything around if you like if you'd like to do that." "No, that really that's just not convenient. So can't you fix this?" "No, I fucking can't fix it. It's a ley line." Even if I could fix it, you would not want the result of it.

Laylla: Right. Yeah.

Byron: And so she was never happy. Never, never, never. And she finally she was renting the house, so she finally got out of that house and moved into another house, and and that was even crazier. So, yes, often the person who calls you is the problem.

Laylla: And sometimes the solution is practical and not magical, even when you're dealing with a magical situation.

Byron: Exactly. Just get out on the other side of the bed. I don't I don't understand why that's a problem.

Chelle: Rearrange. I don't know. But, no.

Byron: I mean, you could use that like a spa treatment. You know, when you're feeling kind of sluggish and uh and and like you got energetic barnacles all over you, just imagine stripping off all your clothes and standing in a ley line. And just like blowing it all out. And then, you know, give yourself 15 minutes, set a timer, and then step out, and you would be like, "Ooh, invigorated."

Chelle: Work with what you've got. Use it to your advantage.

Byron: Yeah. I mean, that's what we'd do, but we're, you know, we're people who do this. We do this.

Laylla: That's right. That's who we are. That's what we do. Now, speaking of invigorating energy, I'm going to I'm going to call you out again on another post that you made. This one was about This was about Beltane. And you had posted that you were up, you were cleaning your kitchen, you were doing all sorts of things, you were busy, and you were looking at your oven thinking maybe you're going to tackle that next when you realized, "I'm still buzzing from all the energy of Beltane." And that's something also that Chelle and I have experienced with. You know, you do a ritual or a working, and you don't quite ground enough, and you have still have all that wonderful energy just kind of buzzing around.

Chelle: Buzzing around, yeah.

Laylla: Yeah. What what are your favorite ways to kind of ground and reconnect with, you know, your calm, centered self after something like that?

Byron: I will I will often have a cup of um like herbal tea. And I'll eat something, and I'll eat something that's bready and kind of heavy. Um my my go-to comfort food is a cheese sandwich with mayonnaise. And it's nice and solid, but it's not heavy and disruptive in my tummy. So I'll do that. Um yeah, because that's how I solved the problem of, "Oh, should I clean the oven, or should I go ahead and tackle the bathroom?" Um I went, "Oh, wait a minute. I know what this is. This is Beltane. I need to go eat a sandwich."

Chelle: Have a sandwich.

Byron: Yeah. Well, I didn't even have a sandwich. I just laughed at myself. And then I did I mean, the technique I use is the one of the little roots growing out of your feet to the bottoms of your feet. So I just dug my heels into the floor, and immediately my body went, "Oh. Oh, yeah. Home. I'm home. Good."

Laylla: I can relax now.

Byron: So it was it was a matter of Mother Grove didn't do public rituals for several years because of COVID. We are only slowly getting back to where that feels natural again. And this time, we had wonderful volunteers who came early, and we decorated the space, and we set up a beautiful altar, and we put the Maypole under the gazebo because it was supposed to rain all day. So we really it just all worked perfectly as it does sometimes, so beautifully that at one point, we all stopped because there was a little boy, maybe three years old, maybe four, and he had picked a dandelion that had gone to seed, and he was going to blow it and make a wish. And we stopped the entire ritual so that we could watch him, and we could all have a wish with him.

Laylla: Oh, that's so sweet.

Byron: It was that kind of really family, lovely, juicy, yeah, it was all good. So I was buzzing from that.

Chelle: Magic.

Byron: Yeah. Good magic.

Laylla: This spring has been really good for that. I reconnected with part of Chelle and my old community in the Southern Tier of New York, which was really beautiful, and being able to just be out, get in my garden, and and just kind of dig into the earth has been very healing, I guess. I really needed that. Seeing the dandelions, I am a dandelion fiend, so I'm just loving all the dandelions everywhere. But do you have any outdoor things you like to do, any gardening or any particular um, you know, outdoor witchy-type things that you like to do this time of year?

Byron: Everything. You haven't seen my post on Facebook today, I guess, where I said my daily practice for the past few months has been tending soil, and planting seeds, and planting plants, and thinning plants, and eating radishes, radishes, radishes. And all of that has been so soul-enlivening and so enriching for me because it can't only be about pouring a libation at the new moon and saying my prayers in the morning and remembering people who are sick or dying or pregnant. There's a lot of that going on right now. What was happening nine months ago? What was that, Imbolc? Yeah. Um so I that has been my practice. But at Beltane, something changed, and it's like I can feel the religious part of my spirituality coming back in. And that's good. That's good because I'm I mean, I am a I'm a gardener and a farmer and a writer and a witch, but I'm also a priestess. And for me, witch and priestess are two different things. So priestess is my obligation to the divine, and that in my case, that is the the ancient mothers and the goddess. And then my witchery is something that is practical and and daily and, which is not to say my religious stuff isn't daily too, but it's a it's a different feel to it. So being outside, one of the lovely things is is to grow things you can eat. So the radishes were amazing this year, and I kept writing about them, talking about them. Today, I pulled the last two radishes from the spring batch, and I just wiped them on my pants and ate them.

Chelle: That's how it should be.

Byron: Yeah, I think so too. So what, the composted cow manure and the leaf litter and the soil and all that? Yeah, I got all that too, and that's never killed anybody. So I got the flavor of those things directly from the soil, and I also spoke my gratitude for those beings, those radish beings, giving their lives for me. Now, I would not want to have a diet of nothing but radishes. I love them, but too much. But for all of us to be aware that for us to exist, other things cease to exist, and to remember that. And that that has to do with humility, and it has to do with acknowledge kinship to everything that is around us. But it also has to do with the practical matter of I planted the radishes, I watched the radishes grow, I shook my fist and cursed whatever was eating the radishes that was not me, and then the radishes were done. And now there is okra where the radishes were. And it reminds me always of the cycle of the seasons and the wheel of the year because nothing is ever linear in my world. It's a spiral. It spirals in, and right now, we're in the time of spiraling out, and then we are going to hit the summer solstice, and we're going to start spiraling in again.

Laylla: Oh, I do love that. There's so many cycles in our lives, daily cycles, seasonal cycles, and finding a harmony in that rhythm is something that is is where I find a lot of serenity, and I find a lot of that's where my daily practice comes. If I can just remember where I'm at in that spiral, sometimes just kind of paying attention to that is enough for that day. Oh, I wanted to talk to you a little bit about tea. Now, I I drink tea, but not like Chelle.

Chelle: I drink tea.

Laylla: Chelle is a tea woman and a half, and she definitely loves that. And I know you have mentioned tea a couple times along with Sam and his wife's beautiful tea shop. Now, we also use tea magically uh and and in spellcraft and things like that. Do you have any tea that you like to drink or any particular types of tea that uh kind of get you in a magical mood or magical space?

Byron: Well, I mean, I am completely prosaic in that I love black tea. I drink an English I agree. I drink an English brand called PG Tips, which is kind of just basic, go to Costco and buy a box of tea, tea.

Chelle: Just plain old black tea.

Byron: Yeah, I'm a big black tea fan, and I like all kinds of black tea. So, oh, wait a minute. There's some real smoky thing that I don't like.

Chelle: Oh, uh Lapsang Souchong.

Byron: Lapsang Souchong, I don't really like that. It's too smoky for me.

Laylla: I like the Colin Hay song where he talks about Lapsang Souchong, but I don't actually like the tea.

Byron: We had a shop here in town for years and years that was called High Tea, and they baked their own bread, and they, you know, Nice. they would make special blends of tea, but you could just get a pot of Earl Grey and a small loaf with some butter and cheese, and it was just the most civilized thing imaginable. And it was also affordable. This is back in the '70s, so, yeah, we spent a lot of time there in college. I do I use tea magically, but I use tea more as a as a psychological tool. So I will so the act of, it's my own kind of tea ceremony, I guess, the act of sitting with another person and offering them this hot beverage and sitting with them and having a hot beverage together is a kind of communion that I think we often miss. And it's I'm sure you can do the same thing with coffee, and maybe we go to Starbucks together and we all order a coffee and we do that. But there's something about tea and the kind of fussiness of tea. Like, I I like black tea just black. I don't need anything with it. But man, if I go to Britain, I'm going to want some cream and a little bit of sugar. And that's going to be tea.

Chelle: Now you're speaking Chelle's language.

Guest: Yeah.

Chelle: My British blend, my sweet cream, and a teaspoon and a half of sugar.

Guest: Yeah. I mean, it's just the best. It really It sets you up for the whole day. And and you can have it all day long. In fact, I stopped drinking caffeinated tea at 6:00 every evening or else I can't sleep. So, when I got in from work, I had a really fast, cuz I didn't get in till 5:30, I had a really fast cup of tea with a lot of almond milk in it to cool it down enough for me to drink it before 6:00. And then I got wine. So, that's how that worked. Um, I think tea is remarkable. And I remember a few years back, one of our local, uh, organic grower school things did this thing called the Eat Carolina Challenge. And the challenge was that for 2 weeks, you would only eat and drink things that could be that were grown in North or South Carolina.

Laylla: Oh, very cool.

Chelle: That's cool.

Guest: It was a lot of fun, but but I had to make it hard on me, harder on me by saying, "I'm going to only eat things and drink things that I can grow in my backyard." And it didn't mean I had to be growing it. It just meant that it had to it had to prosper here where I live. Which meant that I didn't drink tea, but I have tons of herbs, so I would drink mint tea, and I would drink sage tea, which is remarkably delicious with honey. And I didn't eat any wheat, any wheat-based things because I can't grow wheat here. Well, you can, but it's really, really hard. So, I ate only corn-based things. So, I ate corn pone and corn fritters and things that were just made of corn. And it was for 2 weeks, you had to be so very conscious about everything you put in your mouth. And it was a wonderful exercise. I would, uh, I would recommend that to to anybody that wanted to get kind of centered in what they're doing, what they're ingesting for their body. It's really helpful.

Chelle: As well as getting you in tune with your, quote unquote, magic of place, the magic of your home, your area, your surrounding.

Laylla: That is so important to pay attention to the energies and the magic where you are. Like you were saying at the beginning, you know, even if you're in a skyscraper, there are spirits and energies there that if you're paying attention, you can connect with and and work with and talk to. And it really doesn't matter where, but just connect with where you're at. And and I love the idea of eating local things to kind of get you in that place. It was beautiful.

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: I want to thank you so much for being here, but we want to give you a minute. I know you have a new book that you have been working on, "Feral Church," and we're very excited about that. Can you tell us about some of your upcoming projects?

Guest: I can. Um, two big things that are coming up for me. Well, I mean, they feel big to me. In June, I'm finally going to go up to the Buckland Museum and do a class at the Buckland Museum. We've been trying to do this since COVID. And I keep going, "No, I can't. No." So, finally, I'm going to be up there in June. And I'm trying to arrange maybe another a book signing maybe at Loganberry Books and maybe another class somewhere. And then I'll go directly from Cleveland down to Wisteria, which is in southern Ohio, to do Appalachian Summer Solstice, which is one of my favorite festivals of the whole year because it's very laid back, the food is good, the land is Wisteria, you probably don't know this, Wisteria is on a, uh, an old strip mine. It's reclaimed land. They've been on the land for 30 years. And you can stand on this land and you can feel it healing itself. And it's remarkable. And because it's healing itself, it it comes rushing right up your body. So, you get that same healing energy, and then you send that back down into the land, and the land is like, "Ah, thanks for helping," and sends it back up. So, it's it's a wonderful kind of feedback loop. Then the big my big thing this year is that I'm leading a tour to Cornwall in July.

Laylla: Oh, wow.

Chelle: Oh, wow. I think I saw that on your socials. How exciting.

Guest: It's I'm so excited about it. I will be more excited after this week when I've gotten my transportation straightened out because it's a little crazy. But I'm seeing two good friends who live in near Penzance, um, Cassandra Latham-Jones and Laetitia Latham-Jones, who are the village witches of their village, St. Buryan. And they're we're going to have them with us the whole day telling us all the secrets. Um, and we're going to go to a lot of ancient monuments. We're going to do a lot of witchcraft, a lot of magic. We're going to go to Land's End where you stand at the very edge of the sea and the next thing is North America. I mean, it's just going to be a lot of fun. And it's 10 days. No, 8 days. And it's pricey is the only thing. We don't have a huge group going because it's $4,000. But everything's inclusive except for your airfare. So, that's the big thing.

Chelle: But it sounds like it's worth every penny, though. Worth every penny.

Guest: Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I think so.

Laylla: What a magical trip. Yeah.

Guest: Yeah. Yeah. And then after that, you know, I've got I've got more things coming up, lots of stuff in October, September. I'm doing two herb conferences, one in Alabama and one down in Wilmington. Um, I used to do herb conferences a lot and I've had kind of fallen out of that. But I've already done one this year and then I'll do two more. So, I love doing those. I love

Laylla: Now tell us about this forthcoming book. I'm curious.

Guest: Okay. It is called "A Feral Church." And this book, oh god, this sounds so crazy, but it's okay. You know me. You know I'm crazy.

Laylla: We love crazy. That's our favorite.

Guest: I was at Wisteria, oddly enough, when I heard that Carol Christ had died. And she her work had I never met her, but her work had always been important to me as a as a goddess devotee. And as soon as I heard it, I was weeping and a friend came over and we were drinking coffee with whiskey in it and, "Oh, what are we going to do? Oh, it's so terrible, so terrible." And later that day, I this book was kind of laid on me. As the Baptist would say, it was laid on my heart to write a a goddess theology book. And so, that's what this is. It's a it's a book of how we find goddess in the wilderness. And sometimes the wilderness is inside us. It's not going out onto the land. It's going and looking at your personal baggage and history and trauma.

Laylla: Oh.

Guest: And that'll be coming out, uh, we think January of next year. But when it drops, I hate to use that for a book, when the when the book finally is available, with it will come a website and a series of white papers about how you, in fact, begin a feral church.

Laylla: Oh, wow.

Chelle: Oh, wow. I love that.

Guest: So, it's it's going to be a national and, I hope, international, uh, process of tearing people away from organized religion and putting religion back into their own hands.

Laylla: Yes. And we need that. We need that so much right now. Everyone needs to kind of take that power back, you know, take our own power and speak that power.

Guest: Right.

Laylla: You know, we need to speak that into the world right now. The world really needs this.

Guest: I think so. We do. We do.

Laylla: I'm very excited about that. Well, thank you so much for being with us, Byron. This has been wonderful. But we would love to have you back again sometime because you are just so fun to talk to.

Guest: Oh, absolutely. I would love to. And I would even love just having a Zoom without it being the show, just to chat.

Laylla: Yes, I would love that too.

Chelle: Yes, that is wonderful as well. And hopefully, we'll see you at some more conferences. We'll hang out there.

Guest: We will. We'll compare our schedule and see what happens.

Laylla: Absolutely.

Guest: Yeah. And I really want to encourage you all to do more of that.

Laylla: Thank you. Yes, thank you. We we're we're encouraging each other to do more.

Guest: Good, because we need that. As communities, we need that.

Chelle: I definitely feel like it is kind of a witches' call to action and it's it's spread the knowledge you have and help the folks take that step up and and get on that journey. Just like we all needed a little help on that journey, and let's continue helping people who are either starting or midway through their journey and just need a little extra information, knowledge, assistance, whatever that may be.

Guest: And even inspiration. You know, we we learn best by having things modeled for us. So, with people like you modeling for us how we do this, then other people can step into that and go, "Well, I know some people that do that."

Chelle: And if they can do it, I can do it.

Guest: Exactly. Exactly.

Laylla: Yes. And they can do it because we're not we're not that special. We're just pretty normal people. Just like So, if we can do it, y'all can do it.

Guest: No, you're pretty special. You're pretty special.

Laylla: Now, that's a compliment. I'll definitely take that. Thank you.

Chelle: And on that note, thank you so very much to Byron Ballard for joining us on today's Back on the Broomstick. We had a wonderful conversation and are looking forward to many more, especially when your upcoming book, "A Feral Church," comes out. If you would like to see what Byron is up to, you can check out her socials. We'll have some links in the show notes. We'll also put some links to her books, "Small Magics," and to the upcoming trip as well. If you're lucky enough to go, we want pictures. Email us at backonthebroomstick@gmail.com or you can also find us at our website, our Facebook, and Instagram at Back on the Broomstick. And if you'd like, leave a comment, give us some stars, throw a review. It really helps the show out, helps other people to find us, and, of course, it makes Chelle and I cackle like little witches. So, thank you for all of those. We will see you next week with another episode of Back on the Broomstick. And in the meantime, be wise, be wicked, and keep it witchy.
