Welcome to Back on the Broomstick, a modern witch's spoken word grimoire, where two witchy friends from way back are reconnecting to their pagan roots after a long period of mundanity, where rewalking the path of the wise and trying out all the latest spells, rituals, and magical theory in today's witchcraft and pagan practices. So grab your wand and your incense, your cauldron and your crystals, and join us as we get back on the broomstick.

Laylla: Hi, and welcome to Back on the Broomstick. I'm Laylla, and today we'll be talking about what to expect at pagan festivals. Chelle and I are huge festival fans. Most of our 20s and 30s, and okay, even still now, are spent going from music festivals to pagan festivals, to drum circles and local pagan camping events. The types of festivals differed, but pagans could be found in large numbers in every single one of them. Today, we're talking about what to expect when attending a pagan or pagan-like festival. With us, we have representatives from two different types of festivals: Kestrel and Hank from Dragon Fest in Colorado, and Rob from Faerie Festival in New York State. Now, Dragon Fest has been around for a little while, from the 1980s?

Kestrel: Yes, that's correct. It's been around quite a while.

Laylla: In the mountains of Colorado and celebrated every August. And you guys welcome people from all religions and spiritual traditions, according to your website, but the workshops and rituals mostly focus on neo-pagan, Wiccan, and earth-based spiritual practices. So, welcome to Hank and Kestrel. And we also want to welcome Rob, who's joining us today from the Faerie Festival. And the Faerie Festival is located in Ouaquaga, New York, in the woods in upstate New York. Gorgeous place, you need to go there. Faerie Festival is, now correct me if I'm wrong, Rob, this is kind of a music and arts festival?

Rob: Music, arts, and fantasy.

Chelle: The theme is kind of very fantasy mythical. So while this is not a festival that's marketed at pagans, it is marketed for everyone. It's obviously a place that attracts a lot of pagans, as well as mundane people. It's perfect for friends, families, and anyone looking for a little bit of enchantment in their lives.

Rob: Uh, Faerie Festival is one weekend a year, so it's a Friday, Saturday, Sunday. It is most like a Renaissance Faire in that we do have a jousting tournament every day there. They also have three stages for music, uh, a lot of character actors, and we probably get anywhere between 3,000 and 5,000 people every year.

Laylla: Wow.

Rob: Um, that's mostly day-trippers, so these are people that come in the morning and we close the gates, I think, at 7:00 or 7:30 or something like that. But there's a good 500 or 600 of us that stay overnight and enjoy the nighttime activities, which are, adult-wise at least, a lot more fun.

Laylla: Now, Faerie Fest has been going on for about 15 or so years, right?

Rob: Yeah, roughly 15, 16 years, something like that. We did miss a couple of years, so it's like, with COVID and all, how do you, how do you say how long a festival's been going, because we missed two years of it.

Chelle: I think COVID got everyone. Isn't it kind of a, a midsummer dream?

Rob: Yes, that's, that's the, the tagline of it is the New York Faerie Fest, A Midsummer's Dream. And it's, uh, the last weekend in June every year.

Chelle: Uh, Kestrel or Hank, would you tell us a little bit about Dragon Fest?

Kestrel: So, Dragon Fest is a regional neo-pagan spiritual retreat. It takes place in the mountains near Bailey, Colorado, every August. 2024 will be our 39th year of putting on Dragon Fest. Uh, similar to what Rob said, Dragon Fest had two years where we didn't have a festival because of COVID, and then we had one year where we had to cancel the entire festival because the fire danger was so intense that we just, it wasn't safe. Um, but other than that, we have been doing it every year, uh, since the 1980s, as you had said. And Hank here has actually been going for most of that time. So, I'm going to turn it over to Hank and have him talk about some of those early days.

Hank: Yeah, I've been going about 35, 36 years to it. Uh, been on the board twice, so I'm familiar with it. But, yeah, it's, it's a regional festival, well, not really a festival, but a religious retreat, but it enjoys a membership that actually extends up into Canada, and we've even had people come from overseas. So, it's, it's got quite a wild, wide appeal. Basically, it's, it's pagan-oriented, but as you mentioned, it's, uh, neo-Wiccan and, and Gardnerian and, and all the earth-based religions, but it is a religious retreat primarily.

Laylla: Now, Rob, real quick to kind of touch on that, because that was one of the first questions we actually wanted to ask you guys, who is Faerie Fest aimed at?

Rob: Like I say, it's a fantasy fest, so for some people, their fantasy and their religion all go together.

Laylla: Right.

Rob: Uh, but not for everybody. So, this is, just like a Renaissance Faire, it's open to the public, and includes everybody. And, so, the, the spiritual aspects of it are more the fact that we're deep in nature, but there's no rituals particularly that go on there or, or other things like that. There, a lot of the other festivals I go to, and, you know, I go to a bunch of them, um, have more of that. There are some that are very entertainment-based, and some that are very much work-based, and some within the same group. I mean, in, for Rites of Spring, which is in Massachusetts, and that's, that's a, a fun party of things, and a lot of spiritual stuff happening there, too, and the rituals there are awesome. Um, and there's a lot of entertainment, there's concerts and things like that. And the same group in the fall does Twilight Covening, and there is no vending, there is no concert, there is no entertainment. It's about doing the work, and that's, because of that different shift in focus, it's, uh, it's wonderful for a whole bunch of very different reasons than the other one is wonderful.

Chelle: That's a very good point. There are quite a few different types of festivals that you can go to. There's more of the spiritual retreat of the type that Dragon Fest is, uh, like you said, Twilight Covening is all about doing the magical work. It's about not necessarily going to party, but going to get deeply magical and in tune with your magical self. Some, like Faerie Festival, are aimed at mundane people, but have a heavy pagan contingent that come to it. Depending on the type of festival that you want to go to, you kind of have to do a little bit of research on it. But they all have a lot in common, as well, particularly that pagans love to go to all of these different types of festivals. So, for a spiritual festival, for a festival where magic and, and doing the work is the important part, what can someone who has never been to a festival maybe expect? So, when they first step onto the land for Dragon Fest, say, what would they expect to see or to do in a typical day?

Hank: Uh, in a typical day, I mean, there are workshops during the day that focus on things like, uh, making drums, or how to put together a public ritual, or, you know, what people have experience in. Most of the time, these people have, uh, a decade or decades of experience in putting these workshops together. So, there's that, and, and typically in the evening, there are, there is a ritual of some sort. Sometimes during the day, we've had drawing down the sun, we've, uh, done other rituals, as well. Some of them quite fun. We had a, a chocolate ritual and a, a flower frenzy ritual and some other ones. Yeah, and that's what you get, and breakfast, of course, and some of the other things. It's a lot of fun.

Laylla: Now, Rob, can, can you describe a, a typical, same question, typical day at Faerie Fest? So, I get to Faerie Fest and I walk through the gate and then?

Rob: Uh, the first thing you hit there is the stage. There's usually some musicians playing some cool music out there. And then there's, right at the entrance there, is the food area. So, there's, uh, vendors there that sell food. And as you walk up the path, there is other, other vendors that are basically selling, uh, stuff they make and magical stuff. So, uh, I had this question asked me the, the other day, like, "Where can I get a pair of ears, or where can I get a pair of wings so that I can go to the festival?" You can get them at the festival. The people there make very, the very best stuff. Uh, once you get past that, then you're into the areas, uh, where there's performances and kids. My friend Ed is there, too. He's our local blacksmith for the Faerie Fest. You get to watch people hammering hot steel into shapes. That's right past the jousting field, which is near the Star Stage, which is also where the, uh, some of the comedic actors hang out in that area, too. And there are some insane people there. It's awesome. There is this one guy that's the, the cello goblin, and he climbed up into a tree like 30 feet, standing on a branch that's like, not even the thickness of a baseball bat, standing up there with his cello playing. So, you walk through the woods and you hear this music and you can't tell where it's coming from, and then you look up and there's this, there's this lunatic playing cello. And he's really good. So, it's, it's a lot of fun. As you go further, there's the Troll Bridge, there's satyrs, there's, there's the Mermaid Cove, there's so many different things. And those are all the, the fantasy aspect of it. I mean, really, the joust is fantasy, too, because they're not really knights.

Chelle: What I'm hearing is Faerie Festival, festivals like that, more of a Renaissance Festival type, are more for experiencing. You go and there's vendors and there's things to see and there's actors and there's people there. And then if you camp at night, that's when there might be, you know, the music around a campfire, and that's when you might have a little bit more access to more concentrated number of pagan-oriented people.

Rob: Yeah. One night there is, uh, a concert night with a masquerade ball. So, that's up at his stage and, uh, a dance floor that you don't even see if you're a day-tripper and not spending the night there. So, that happens on one night. The other night is an interactive drum circle with, we have a dragon that's eight foot tall. She, she's on, uh, spring stilts, and she's got two different dragon outfits. One of them has long wings with these lit lines on them that are like neon, and the other one actually has fire coming out of her wingtips. She's hidden, you know, a couple of propane tanks in her outfit somewhere.

Chelle: Does she fly over from Colorado to get there? Is that what's going on?

Rob: No, I don't think, I don't think Colorado, I think she's an East Coast dragon.

Chelle: Oh, okay. Okay. Okay. I didn't know if they were related to Dragon Fest or not.

Rob: And there's fire spinners and there's singers and a bunch of other stuff.

Hank: We also have a lot of, um, music, mainly drumming. There are drum circles there, several different ones for different purposes. And some entertainment, we're, we're toying with the idea of actually having a, a talent night and entertainment involved. It's about the magic.

Chelle: Hank, would you say that Dragon Fest is more for the experienced practitioner, or is it also for a new practitioner?

Hank: You can be totally inexperienced or not even involved in the pagan community and show up and have a good time. And we, we, we invite and accept all religions. It doesn't matter. I mean, you could be, uh, Southern Baptist and we don't really care. Come ahead on if you want to experience the earth magic.

Chelle: Nice. So, what I have experienced in my time going to festivals like Dragon Fest, one of the big draws for me is being able to go and do workshops. These are usually practitioners who have been doing something for a while or are experts in a subject or have a lot of knowledge they'd like to share. And the workshops that you can find at these festivals are so much fun and so amazing. You can learn meditation, you can learn ritual craft, you can learn different, I don't know, you can learn fire spinning, you can learn anything, different types of magic. And, and so that's a big draw to go and be able to do these classes.

Hank: Some of the, some of the workshops we've had, one time this guy set up a sweat lodge and did, uh, Native American rituals and introduced people to do that. I, at one point, had a mead-making workshop. I've been making mead for like 30 years. And it's, it's those kind of things, not just the, the magical side, but where the magical side and the mundane side intersect.

Kestrel: Absolutely. Yeah, the mead-making, um, workshop and the mead-tasting workshop are very, very popular.

Hank: Yes, there is. Of course.

Chelle: Absolutely. And the drumming and, now, Rob, you mentioned faerie wings, and I know for Faerie Festival, a big draw is the, the actors and the skits and the wonderful little things that are going on all around, and the fact that everybody that comes to the door can dress up. You can be whatever type of faerie, mystical, enchanted creature you want. In fact, you're encouraged, and there's vendors there for every delight, anything that you want to look like, you can. And, and that is absolutely fun. I highly recommend festivals like Faerie Festival if you're a little bit in the broom closet, because everyone goes to these. They're for everyone. You don't have to be a pagan, but you can go and be very pagan under the radar. But with that in mind, wings and, and looking like the fae, what's a dress code? What do I wear if I'm going to something like Dragon Fest or Faerie Fest?

Kestrel: So, Dragon Fest has, uh, what we call Bear Country. Um, and so it's just a section of Dragon Fest that is sectioned off from everything else where you can be nude in nature if you would like, and have the freedom to, as long as you are in the Bear Country area, to be as naked as you want to be.

Laylla: I love that you call it Bear Country.

Kestrel: Yes, and it's B-E-A-R. Like bare butt.

Laylla: I love it.

Kestrel: Yes. Yes. And, um, and you can be as naked as you'd like there. Uh, nobody's going to tell you to put a shirt on or bother you about it at all. And, um, and then once you go into the main fest area, you are expected to be what we would consider beach appropriate. So, you know, you need to be wearing a top and bottoms. But other than that, we don't really have a dress code. And one of the things that I really love about Dragon Fest is watching people express themselves through clothing that they wouldn't normally get to wear in their mundane lives, either because it doesn't match their physical gender expression, or their physical gender that they were born with, or because their job has a strict dress code, or they're, you know, they have a specific position in their community that they, they have to look professional. And, so, people show up to Dragon Fest and they wear costumes and they wear beautiful regalia and they have a great time. I think that's one of the, my favorite things about Dragon Fest.

Chelle: I'm glad you mentioned Bear Country, because a lot of festivals will have that. I know Faerie Festival does not, because this is more of a mundane thing.

Rob: Yeah, it's open to the whole public, so it's really, you have to keep that in mind.

Chelle: Yes, so dress code there is what you'd wear in public, if you're a faerie.

Rob: Right. Or costume.

Hank: The other thing in Dragon Fest is we're very concerned about privacy. So, we keep that, you can show up and nobody will know. Um, we, we use, um, codes in the registration and such to maintain privacy, because some people show up and they could be in the middle of a divorce or something, who knows. And, so, the legal aspects are there, as well.

Chelle: Sure. And anytime you, you have nakedness involved, you know, you have to be a little careful. A lot of places that Chelle and I have been to, uh, refer to it as skyclad, or we'll have a skyclad area, which, as we all know, is clothed only in the sky or in the air, just means naked. Real fancy word for naked. Which is wonderful. A lot of people love to be out in the air, in your own skin. It's a great way to be. But there are rules around it, like you were saying, Hank, there's privacy. You know, no picture taking, especially if there are skyclad or Bear Country areas. Keep your camera to yourself. Get permission in everything.

Chelle: Towel etiquette.

Laylla: And how about towel rules, Chelle? You want to bring up some good towel rules?

Chelle: Use one. That's, that's the best rule. We have, we have been to a place out in Western New York, Brushwood Folklore Center, which is a clothing-optional place, and that's where I learned about towel etiquette. If you are going to be skyclad or in Bear Country, I love that term, by the way, you know, have a towel with you, something to sit on. Be polite. No one wants to be sitting on your icky bits after you. So, my best advice to folks, uh, that, that choose to go to clothing-optional or no-clothing type events, have a towel to sit on. Be respectful, please.

Chelle: Yes, and definitely ask permission, um, before you hug anyone, touch anyone, particularly if you are skyclad. And for the love of all that is holy, please shower before you get in the hot tub. All I ask, if you do one thing, shower before you get in the hot tub. It is not your personal clawfoot tub. That's Laylla's PSA, thank you.

Laylla: No, I just, just so we, we didn't get off track, Rob, was there anything else that you wanted to add about the dress code or lack thereof at Faerie Fest? Can I come to Faerie Fest if I don't have wings and I don't have things? Can I just come in a t-shirt and shorts? Is that okay?

Rob: Of course. Of course. Dress, dress to get ready for the weather, but check it out and see what's going to happen. Yeah, it's, uh, it's fairly relaxed there, but there, there is no nudity there because we have, we are open to the general public.

Laylla: And I can get my face painted once I get there, right?

Rob: Oh, you can get there, yeah, yeah, you can get that. A lot of people are doing that there. There's a lot of things you, you can do there. But again, that's just Faerie Fest, and I go to a lot of different ones. Uh, Free Spirit down in Maryland is usually in the hot bit of the summer, and they've got a pool or two there, and, um, you know, the whole place, except for, instead of having a skyclad area, they have a small non-skyclad area. So, it's like, this is the area that like, if, if you are skyclad, you should cover up when you go into that area. And, and that's that one. Then there's things like Rites of Spring, which are, um, they have smaller areas that are, are open for nudity, but, um, it's usually cold, so you don't really see much of that there. It's, you know, it's in the mountains of Massachusetts, and so it's a bit of a breezy, you don't see a lot of that, but it's not because people are prudish, it's because it's cold. That's about that. One of the things that I did want to touch on there, too, um, if you're concerned about nudity and all of that stuff, is many of these places that you're, festivals you're camping at, will have bathrooms and shower facilities. And for the most part, most of the ones that I've been to, are very, they don't care about gender, right? So, there's not a women's shower and a men's shower at many of these things. It's four showers on site, you know, four shower areas.

Chelle: And sometimes those showers are lined up outdoors.

Rob: Sometimes, yes.

Chelle: And I do want to touch on the fact that we're talking a lot about nudity, and that does not mean that these are crazy sex fests.

Rob: No.

Chelle: The biggest, no, the biggest thing with pagans is we just like to be free and open, and we don't really care what your body presentation is. You be you. Come as you are. Be naked, be not naked, be comfortable. It's more of a being in your own skin, being outdoors, and just kind of being connected in that way.

Chelle: Exactly.

Laylla: It's more of just a freedom and being connected to nature and to life and to the air and all of it. It's it's very beautiful. And so I find that it's very, very respectful. I find that people, when they're skyclad, tend to be more open, I guess, more more because you're very vulnerable in that type of position. But it's it's more of a magical thing and not anything you ever have to do. Just be respectful, do what's comfortable for you, and go from there.

Rob: One thing you should probably touch on, too, is the the whole concept of polyamory because that is very common at pagan festivals. And it's, again, it's not something you have to do or have to get into, but just, uh, you know, at least open your mind to the possibility of if you see this couple together and they're obviously connected, and then later one of them is connecting with somebody else, whether holding hands or kissing or whatever, uh, it's not necessarily somebody's cheating on somebody and, right? I mean, just just know that there's a lot of options out there. And that's one of the things about freedom means you can do this or you can choose not to do this.

Laylla: Right. Right.

Rob: It's not a one-size-fits-all world out there. It just isn't.

Laylla: You know, just like relationships, gender expression, however you want to be is cool with us. We want you to be happy where you're at, and we'll help you get there if we can. But we just that's really what we're looking for.

Hank: One of the things that we really focus on at Dragon Fest is safety. And it is a community in the truest sense of the word. If somebody is acting inappropriately, it gets reported and, uh, dealt with. So, it's, uh, more than anything else, we try to make it because of the nudity, because of the the legal aspects, again, uh, we try to be very, very conscious of the members' safety.

Laylla: And I've found, and Chelle, I think you and I have both been to quite a few of the same festivals, people are super sweet and open. You know, they'll ask to hug you. They'll ask to hold your hand. And this is decades ago. I'm not talking about just the last couple years. I'm talking about, you know, in the '90s when we were first going to these places, consent, informed consent and being, you know, who you are was super important, and it always has been. I've always found at these places communication is paramount, and people's safety has been of a prime concern. So, if you ever feel uncomfortable, you know, talk to someone, mention it to anyone, and these places are right there to-

Chelle: It gets swiftly handled. Absolutely. Now, just so we don't focus on that too terribly much, I don't want us all go off on a tangent. I'm I'm going to pose a question to all three of you, and I'll start with Rob if you want to go first in answering. What do you think the importance is of events like these to the greater community, whether it be the pagan community or just the community in general who wants to go spend a day in a fantasy fairy world? What is the importance of these events?

Rob: Um, the importance is really, for me, and I can only speak for myself on it, if this is the stuff that you like and really works well for you, once you go to one of these things, you feel a lot less alone, a lot less isolated, a lot less like, "Am I the only one like this?" No, you're not. Whatever it is that you like, you're not the only one like that. There's bunches of people, and it's nice to hang out with people that have a shared sense of wonder, a shared sense of spirit, a shared sense of non-judgmentalness.

Chelle: A shared sense of being weird.

Rob: Right, exactly. I understand the whole, uh, welcoming all religions, and I'm I'm pretty open to a lot of different religions. There are some aspects that I'm not open to at all, and one of them is the, uh, what, and this could come from any religion, "We have the right answer. We are the one true way." And it's like, "Yeah, well, no, you're not. You're just nobody is. One size doesn't fit all."

Laylla: Red flag.

Rob: Red flag. Don't come to a pagan, uh, festival to try to find like, I'll just use this as an example, non-Christians in order to convert them and save them. Don't do that shit. Nobody appreciates it.

Laylla: No one's going to try to convert you, or they shouldn't, anyways. You'll find lots of things to get involved with. People would love to have you come play with them, but no one's going to try to convert you.

Chelle: This this isn't conversion camp, folks.

Rob: Right. And that's, honestly, that's the biggest part for me of of pagan life in general is that the whole idea of proselytizing or that we have the one true answer and that everybody else is wrong and therefore are our enemies and therefore less than, uh, just doesn't occur because that's all just so much bullshit. I don't have time for it.

Chelle: None of us do. Now, Kestrel, same question to you. Um, and and I know that you're you guys are kind of almost, I don't want to say a learning festival, but kind of like a learning festival with the workshops and the classes and such. So, what is your take on the importance of these types of festivals for the greater community?

Kestrel: I think, like Rob said, the biggest benefit is connection with people who are like you, who aren't going to other you because you're different or because they think that your religion is evil. My first year, I actually had a really hard time showering after the festival was over because I felt like I was washing off this like happy pagan girl who had made so many friends and, you know, I was using my community name at Dragon Fest instead of my mundane name. And it's just like it's so welcoming and it's such a great community. It feels like you're finally with the people you're always meant to be with. And it just felt like me, and it was very hard to go back to normal life after that. But I think specifically, too, for Dragon Fest, because it's outdoors and it's in the mountains, there is that chance to reconnect with nature. A lot of us live in cities for various reasons. That's where the jobs are. Maybe that's where we were born. And it's hard to connect with nature, harder to connect with nature in cities. So, for Dragon Fest, being set in this beautiful, remote area, don't have much cell reception, everything's in a tent or outside, you don't have to follow your calendar or your clock quite as much. I mean, of course, we we like you to be on time for workshops and rituals, but other than that, you're you're really free. And I think that's a great feeling.

Chelle: And I also wanted to bring up, Laylla and I have participated in festivals that are based in hotels. And that is, yet again, a whole different experience, um, because you are in a public hotel. You know, it's not like they cordon off the whole hotel, uh, for these things. So, you know, there are people there that aren't participating. And that in itself is also a whole different vibe, equally beneficial. And I I love the hotel festivals just as much, but definitely a different vibe because you are just kind of in the in the big ballrooms and conference rooms. Um, and even when they hold rituals, the rituals are in the ballrooms and the conference rooms. But you still, hotel or not, you still get that sense of community, um, that sense of reconnecting and having the ability and the opportunity to go to workshops and participate in classes. But I agree with everything you said, Kestrel. I've actually been, um, to where Fairy Fest is held, and I get the whole, "You just want to step on the land." And, again, Fairy Fest is a very family-oriented, more fantasy-type place, but if you are of the pagan persuasion, stepping on the land where Fairy Fest is, you can't replace that.

Kestrel: We have the same feeling about the land where Dragon Fest takes place. For the last, what is it, Hank, like 12 years, maybe, Dragon Fest has been, um, on some private land that is leased to us for the duration of the fest. We have a wonderful relationship with the landowner. She attends Dragon Fest as well. It kind of feels like home for some people, I think, because we have this intense relationship with the landowner and the land itself.

Chelle: And I think that's the same story, actually, with Fairy Fest. Wouldn't you agree, Rob?

Rob: Oh, definitely. I mean, our own local community here has been doing work on that land and rituals on that land for a lot longer than Fairy Fest has been around. So, that adds to it. That adds to the energy of the land. It changes it, and the land changes us. We're a part of it.

Chelle: It does.

Laylla: I do think that going to festivals is definitely a transformative experience. And one of the things that will absolutely get your blood pumping and change you is the nightly bonfires, the rituals, and the drum circles, uh, that they have at night. Now, Rob, you have been my drum guru for a very long time. You introduced-

Chelle: For as long as I've had a drum, it's been you, Rob.

Laylla: My drums are yours. Built and rebuilt them. Dancing around a bonfire and drumming is something that is a phenomenal part of outdoor festivals. And that, too, comes with some etiquette. You know, what do I expect if I'm going to a drum circle around a bonfire? What types of things should I do or should I not do? Is there anything that you can think of, you know, that a newbie might want to know going into a, say, a drum circle? What types of things should someone, you know, expect for that?

Hank: Dragon Fest has several different drum circles of different purposes. One is a trance circle, specifically for trancing. Another one we call freedom circle, where you go to express yourself and and just have a good time, uh, clothing optional. We don't don't bring a glass container to a drum circle. Don't, you know, you've got to be careful of of people injuring themselves. Also, uh, there some of the people dance together, some don't. You mentioned consent and other things like that. So, just be respectful, more than anything else, and, uh, and aware.

Kestrel: Yeah, I would say also just, um, as Hank had said, kind of be aware of the the safety needs of the site. If you feel like you're maybe too inebriated to safely dance around the fire, take a short break and sit down for a little while, sober up. And then, as far as etiquette goes, one of the most serious, uh, etiquette things that we try to follow at Dragon Fest is not to touch someone else's drum unless they have said that you may do that, um, because drums can be expensive or they might have been handmade by the the drummer, and they hold tremendous emotional value for that person. They know how to take care of it. They know how to play it to its best, you know, ability, and they may not want to share their drum with somebody. So, um, definitely asking permission before using somebody's drum. And I don't know if this is most of the drum drum circles I've been to are at Dragon Fest, but, um, a lot of our drummers will offer, "I have this spare drum. Would you like to join us and help drum?" And then, the other part of etiquette is try to stick to the beat that the drummers are going on and don't don't try to change it to the beat that you want to have because it does kind of mess with the flow a little bit. You can hear the other drummers kind of tripping up to try and match the new beat. Just kind of let things flow organically.

Chelle: I was actually going to ask Rob that. I'm biased. I look at Rob as as my drum god, like Laylla does. Rob, what is the etiquette for a person that has never drummed before, brand new to drumming, um, you know, "Hey, I that that sounds good. That looks like fun. I want to do that." What do you do? And and I want to start off with, because I talk with my hands, start with, you know, do you wear jewelry while you drum? You know, what is etiquette if I go to a festival and a drummer hands me a drum and says, "You want to drum?" And I'm like, "Hey, I've never done this before."

Rob: Biggest thing is communication and ask around because each place will be a little different. I go to a ton of festivals, so, uh, each one's different. On the East Coast, typically, this has been the rule in a lot of places, but not all. If you're playing your drum and you don't want anybody else to use it, when you stop playing, either take it with you or put a cover on it. If you see one sitting at a bench, just a drum there by itself without a drum cover on it, you're more than welcome to play that. But that's at those festivals that have that rule, and that is not all festivals. So, yeah, you should not wear rings. It's going to damage the skin. It can damage your rings. It can do a bunch of other things, too. Um, there are also other instruments that get played sometimes, and you have to be, uh, wary about that. You might be the the best, uh, musician in the world, but it's a drum circle, which means there's room for everybody to play percussion, play together. Uh, if you're playing an instrument which really demands an audience, then that's probably not a good one to bring.

Laylla: Right. Like Hank said, there's different circles a lot of times. I I've seen, uh, at some of the festivals I go to, there'll be a a didge dome where it's a little more of a mellow vibe and they're doing didgeridoos or quieter things. There might be a a slam like a slam poetry, a spoken word circle. Uh, sometimes there'll be guitars and flutes and all sorts of different instruments. But the if it's a big-time drum circle, you can try to fit a flute in. I've heard a few people do it and do it successfully, or different instruments, but typically, it's it's just drums.

Chelle: A drum circle.

Laylla: Yeah. And you will very often, a couple people mentioned this, so I do want to touch on the fact that at most places that I have been to, there's a a designated area where the drummers will usually be. And a lot of times, they will leave their instruments there. And like Rob said, you should ask. If it's covered or uncovered, sometimes there's unspoken rules there over who can use them or when you can use them. Best thing to do is just leave it and ask someone before you touch it. Again, consent, even in drums, is is an important thing. So, you'll see drums or instruments laying all over, even when there's no one there, but just make sure you ask before you touch it because that's pretty common sight.

Rob: Yeah. And honestly, for most beginning drummers, they have a fear built into them because the drum is a very powerful instrument, and most people aren't used to being the musician. They're used to going and swaying to the music that somebody else is playing. But now, you get to play. And that's the other egalitarian thing of a drum circle is that it's a circle you can all play. Now, a lot of the ones, at least here on the East Coast, they take the the mode of the flying ice cream cone.

Laylla: The what?

Rob: Flying ice cream cone, yes. It is a like a V of chairs or benches.

Laylla: Okay. Shaped like an ice cream cone. Okay.

Rob: Right. And then, and then the the ice cream is the fire.

Laylla: Ah, okay.

Rob: So, people won't be all around the circle drumming, generally speaking, but generally on those benches or nearer to the benches than on the other side. And I've been to places where they're drumming all around equally. But honestly, if you're a dancer and you'll go around a big drum circle, you'll hear this particular rhythm being played, and you'll go 30 more feet, and it's a different rhythm because they can't hear each other that well.

Laylla: Yes. That can happen.

Rob: Right, they're playing what's There's also the the concept of what what you're doing there, as well. That's an important thing. There's the the whole concept of the alchemical drum circle, which I love. It's container magic. You're basically making a circle, you're drawing a line, you're casting a circle, whatever it is, you're making a a designated area. You're taking your stuff there, you're adding energy to it, you're heating the bejesus out of it, you're boiling away all the lead and leaving you with gold. That's where the whole alchemy thing comes in. And lead is philosophical lead, and that goes away in a drum circle, or it should, get burned away in a drum circle.

Laylla: Ego.

Rob: Ego, the defensive ego goes away, too. You'll have you'll see people out there with the big 18-inch Remos, gang, gang, gang, gang, you know, playing like crazy. People call them all sorts of things, you know, uh, roosters, uh, shooting stars, because they they play hard and fast for 20 minutes and show off, and, uh, then they're done. They're just freaking done. 20 minutes, they're done. They go away.

Kestrel: I just wanted to mention that Dragon Fest actually has a beginning drum workshop, um, that we usually hold early on in the week. We've had it every year for the last several years, so I kind of want to say that it's a it's a staple at this point.

Chelle: Now, do people have to bring their own drum, or can they borrow a drum?

Kestrel: Not necessarily, no. Yeah, sometimes we do have the ability to provide a few drums, but we we recommend that people try to bring something they can bang on because there may not be enough to go around, depending on how many people attend the workshop. But we do have a beginning drumming workshop, and that usually takes place early in the week so that people can then show up to the drum circles and practice a little bit more.

Laylla: Now, we've talked a lot about drumming and drum circles and alchemical drum circle fires. Am I going to get any sleep at night?

Rob: No.

Hank: Yes.

Chelle: No, yes, maybe. That that sounds about right.

Kestrel: So, at Dragon Fest, we do have quiet hours.

Hank: Yes. It depends on where you camp, as well. I mean, if you want to live next to the drum circle, you can. But there are also family areas and quiet areas, uh, for those of us who are not quite feeling as boisterous. So, it's it's trying to be as inclusive as possible.

Laylla: And make sure you ask before you pick your campsite, if you go to some place that has these. A lot of times, they will go well into the wee hours of the morning, if not all night and all morning. So, please be aware, if you have small children, if you need sleep, if you need quiet, you're going to want to bring your earplugs, and you're going to want to ask where the quiet camping or where the family camping is and stay away from where the drum circles are.

Hank: Yeah, we we label it pretty prominently on the map where it is.

Chelle: A pro tip for that is, I don't care how much fun you're having or what workshops are going on or what drumming and and singing and dancing, you need to not forget to sleep and eat at festivals.

Laylla: And drink water. Hydrate.

Chelle: You can find yourself 16 hours in and not realize it, and you need to eat take that sleep break, take that food break. Don't forget those things because they are vital to your experience.

Rob: Indeed, they are.

Hank: If you're coming to the desert mountains in Colorado, the other thing you really need to be careful of is hydration. It's very dry. It's also high in UV up in the higher elevations. And the first thing that you notice when you start to dehydrate is you get a headache.

Laylla: Mhm.

Hank: And it goes downhill from there. Uh, it's something to be really, really careful of.

Kestrel: Yeah, one of the one of the benefits to Dragon Fest serving breakfast is that, you know, everybody shows up. It's a social hour, but also we're we're getting at least one meal into you for the whole day. And we we watch you eat it, not literally, but we're all hanging out, you know, eating breakfast together. And then, um, at Dragon Fest, we actually have a phrase that we yell at each other randomly throughout the day, which is, "Hippies, hydrate!" um, so that people remember because sometimes you're having a really good time and you have your water bottle on you, but you are not drinking it. So, yeah, we we about, I would say, six or seven times a day, somebody will go over the radios that we all use to contact each other. They'll say, "Hippies hydrate." Then everybody else, "Hippies hydrate." Then everybody takes a swig from their water bottle. And you are supposed to be hydrating with water, not other substances.

Chelle: Another question that I think is important for listeners, and that is, we know we've talked about water and food and clothing. What do you bring to a festival? Rob, if I'm coming and I'm camping for the weekend, what am I bringing?

Rob: Always a small flashlight, always some bug repellent unless you're one of those lucky naturally bug repellent people, always some sunblock, let's say you don't always know what the weather's going to turn into.

Hank: I would add that it's also useful to bring incense because the bathrooms don't always smell that great. No, I thought that was a pretty cool tip.

Chelle: Nothing like a porta-potty in July.

Rob: Yeah, it can be a bit ripe.

Chelle: Speaking of, yeah, bring your baby wipes. You know, bring your regular camping stuff. Bring baby wipes if that's going to help you stay clean. You know, bring your shower things. Bring your musical instruments if you have a drum, if you have a guitar. Bring your ritual garb. Like we were saying in the beginning, dress like a fairy, dress like a pagan, bring all the beautiful, colorful, whatever things you want to bring. Um, a lot of times places will have themed days or themed events. So you might want to look at that to see what you want to bring. Uh, we've mentioned Brushwood Folklore Center. Their festivals, Sirius and Sankofa, usually have themed days after each element. So you might want to bring something to wear to match that color or to to match that element. So check the websites, check what they've got. Maybe they have a You guys mentioned a masquerade ball, Rob, I think. And then do you guys have anything like that, Kestrel, where people can dress up special?

Kestrel: So some years we have an event we call the Unicorn Parade, which is a gender expression parade. And we encourage people to dress in the way that they would like to, and then we parade through the site. And I we I haven't heard whether that is going to occur yet this year. It's put on by a very specific member of our community, and that person has taken a different role this year. So we will see if we offer the Unicorn Parade, but regardless, we encourage people to dress however they would like at Dragon Fest as long as they are clothed in the clothing-appropriate areas, and they are also taking into account that we are sitting at 8,000 feet in Colorado, and so it can be a little bit iffy as to what the weather's going to be. We've had years where it's hot and sunny and dry the entire time. We've had years where it rains every afternoon. We've actually had snow a couple of times. We do recommend that people are capable of layering up.

Chelle: Okay, so my two big festival must-haves, okay, Hank, you said incense, and honestly, that's one of them. But the other two are a hula hoop and a journal. I love to have those I have to have those things at a festival. And I'm a weirdo. I do this when we're tent camping at festivals, too. I actually set up an altar and bring tarot cards.

Kestrel: Yes. Awesome.

Chelle: For the three of you, we're going to start with you, Hank.

Hank: Yes.

Chelle: What is your one unusual item that you love to bring to a festival?

Hank: A cot. Hey, that's cheating. That's a camping item. But that's a good point. Otherwise, you're sleeping on the ground. Being comfortable sleeping is important. Honestly, I bring divination tools more than anything else. Uh, you can get some amazing readings when you're on the land, when you're in circle, which the whole Dragon Fest, the the opening ritual casts circle and uh brings it all to a magical space. So divination stuff.

Kestrel: Thank you for mentioning that, Hank, because I forgot about that.

Chelle: I love that.

Hank: Yeah.

Chelle: Kestrel, what's your one must-bring?

Kestrel: Uh, my one was one must-bring is I bring an entire tote of clothes. Because I love changing my clothes. I love wearing a different outfit for every single ritual that we have, and since then we have multiple per day, so I change my clothes a lot, and then I have outfits that are just for the drum circle, and so yeah, I I bring an entire like cooler-sized Rubbermaid tote full of clothes.

Chelle: I love it, the pagan fashion diva. I love people that go all out like that. So thank you, because it's so much fun. I can't afford it.

Kestrel: Yeah, and so the other thing I also do is I bring um a tub of clothes that I'm no longer wearing that I just string up on my tent, you know, or somewhere in camp, and people come by and they're like, "Oh, hey, could I have this?" I'm like, "Yeah, that's what that's there for."

Chelle: I'm going to cut in really quickly because that's something I see a lot and I love it, and people will often outside their camping area or sometimes there'll be a designated vendor or area, they'll have little free libraries or they'll put out, you know, "This is free," and and you can just come take it. So if you have things that you have outgrown or no longer use, bring them with, you know, add to that uh add to that community.

Kestrel: We actually have a ritual around that. We call it the Giving Tree ritual, and it takes place at the very end of Fest, and the idea is that if you have magical tools or specifically like ritual clothing, not necessarily just costumes, but ritual clothing, ritual tools, magical items that no longer serve you, you can bring them to the Giving Tree ritual. We do it around this huge pine tree on the land, and you can place your item there and then take something with you that you feel serves you better.

Chelle: Love that. Now, Rob, what's what's your must-have, and you can't say a drum?

Rob: I like to have a folding chair that is easy enough to carry that I can drum in, and most of the typical camp chairs, they're like butt hammocks.

Chelle: You hang backwards and you can't drum in them.

Rob: Yeah, I don't bring those. All right. Mine's more like a director's chair but short, so the canvas on the where you're sitting is straight across and tight, so you're not leaning back the whole time, and uh yeah, I always I always bring that. Um, I always bring sage. Always bring sage.

Chelle: That's a good one. That's a good one.

Rob: Yeah.

Hank: I almost forgot, mead. I usually bring a couple of cases of mead.

Chelle: We're going to camp with you, Hank.

Hank: Oh, definitely.

Kestrel: Hank makes wonderful mead.

Chelle: Which which site did you say was yours? We'll camp right next to you.

Hank: I'm going to Rites of Spring, and I've got uh I'll probably be bringing 40 cases of mead.

Chelle: Rites of Spring in Massachusetts, come drink.

Rob: Here's one other thing that I wanted to mention, what to expect as far as uh what to expect at a a festival. If you come to Faerie Fest, it's like going to a Disney World. So you walk, you know, you come in and there's a park, there's a whole bunch of people that you don't know, but it doesn't really matter because there's a whole bunch of people you don't know, so what? And you go to a place like Rites of Spring that has a really high repeat customer base, and as a new person coming in there, it can be daunting because it seems like you've walked into somebody else's family reunion and everybody knows each other so really well.

Chelle: Except you.

Rob: Yeah. And a lot of them haven't seen each other for a year, and that's why they're like giving each other big hugs, and it seems like that's happening to everybody except maybe you because you're new, and it can be daunting, but don't let it get to you. Come anyway. You'll be there next year. You'll be...

Chelle: You'll be getting the hugs.

Rob: ...hugging all these people that it's like, "Hey, remember we had that long conversation?"

Chelle: Best friends you only see once a year.

Rob: Yeah, exactly. And speaking of that sort of thing, the one thing that the infamous pagan hug thing where you go up to somebody you know and hug them and then whisper in their ear like, "Do you know the name of the person that's standing behind me?" Because you you saw them last year at that festival and you had a four-hour conversation, you met each other...

Chelle: You can't remember their names for life.

Rob: ...names in the first two minutes, and then you talked for five hours, and it was awesome, but you never said each other's names again, and now you don't know, and you feel stupid because you know all this stuff about them and they know it about you.

Chelle: Rob, you're giving away secrets, man. The the pagan hug secret is now out in the world. Everyone knows.

Rob: There you go. Yes. I know who you are. I just don't know your name.

Chelle: We still love you. Can't remember your name.

Rob: That happens all the time.

Kestrel: So I just have a quick anecdote. I camp with the same group of people every year, and every single year we are very very famous around camp for adopting someone who's new. And it's it's not even something that we really try to do. It just keeps happening. Last year was actually the first year in a long time that we have not had somebody who's completely new to Dragon Fest. We did have Hank in our camp, who was new to our camp, not necessarily new to Dragon Fest, of course. But we tend to collect the newbies, uh which is always really interesting. You get to know somebody new, and then you get to turn them out into Dragon Fest with some wisdom, you know. And then Dragon Fest also does this thing, we have golf carts on the land that shuttle people from place to place if you have mobility needs. And um we on the first main day of Fest, we have a shuttle tour. So you can get on the shuttle, and the person who's driving the shuttle will drive you around camp, point out all the different things, and tell you where, you know, "This is the community tent where they serve breakfast. This is the place where we have freedom circle," so on and so forth, um which I think is a really fun and interesting way to introduce people to the site.

Chelle: But then next year, I'm hugging you and never got your name.

Kestrel: That's okay. You can ask me what my name is a hundred times, and it will never upset me.

Hank: That's right.

Chelle: Most people, just ask is a big one. I know it's hard for people to kind of get out of your shell, especially if you're new, but these places are so accepting of everyone, of every type, and usually so inclusive. Just ask, try and ask, or just have a quizzical look. Someone will come over and ask you if you need help with something. You know, especially at registration or always there will be a first aid station. You know, you can ask at these places. Places like Brushwood have people uh called red suspenders that will wear um literally red suspenders, and they're part of what's called Fire Tribe, and they take care of a lot of the fire safety. So if you have any questions about that, you can find them by their red suspenders. And so you'll hear about things like that. And so there will be people. You might not always necessarily get a golf cart ride around to show you all the good sites.

Rob: But there's people.

Chelle: But there's people.

Kestrel: Yeah, our staff wears a specific color of t-shirt.

Rob: Yeah. Some places are more structured on that. Rites of Spring on occasion, uh or they it used to be more regular, I don't know whether they're still doing it or not, but they had buttons that were like two and a half inches across, and most of them just had a big script L on it. And that, you could take it on and you could put it on, and you could put it on. No, it wasn't for loser. It was for listener. Oh. Oh, okay. Different button. Different button. If you have a if you have an issue and you you don't see anybody that you know is on staff, but you see somebody with a listener button,

Chelle: You could go to that person.

Rob: And for some people, that counts as a work shift. That's something else I should probably touch on as far as what to expect.

Chelle: Yeah. Some of these things can cost quite a bit of money.

Rob: Costly, yeah.

Chelle: What if I'd like to go and can't afford it? Kestrel, how can you help us?

Kestrel: So Dragon Fest does have a scholarship program. We are about to close our scholarship application window for 2024. It ends on Friday, so probably by the time this episode airs, it will be closed. But we do offer it every year. And then also, if you volunteer as staff, you will get a staff discount. We have a a two-tier staff system that's more complicated than needs to be explained here, but um basically, how many hours you volunteer your time to Dragon Fest translates into a larger discount. So we have a couple of different ways that people can reduce the amount or possibly get their amount covered.

Chelle: Now, Rob, is there the same opportunity at Faerie Fest?

Rob: Yes, there definitely is. Faerie Fest is a huge undertaking, and we need a lot of volunteers. And look, we do get a lot of volunteers. It's all divided up into particular teams, so you'll have responsibilities for a set period of time at a set place, so and the rest of the time, you're free there. They generally, like if you're on the the volunteer thing, they generally like it if you pay for your dinners there. Um, but if you can't do that, they if you can't do that, they will give you more hours to do stuff in in place of that. There are some places like Rites of Spring that do work trade all the time. So you just say, "I I can't I can't afford to go, and I'd like to do a uh, you know, work study program." They call it work study, but it basically is like, you know, you're in the kitchen for five hours every day. You know, honestly, it's quite fun at times. You meet some really interesting people at these festivals at the kitchen while you're slicing potatoes.

Chelle: That's a good way to meet people is take on some volunteer work.

Rob: Exactly. So yeah, that's all there. And there are some places like Spirit Fire, for instance, you can volunteer and be on staff there if you want. They expect everybody to put in a two-hour work shift, and they're really easy work shifts, but everybody has to do that. But their scholarship program is not connected to uh volunteer work at all, and they they like it that way. And honestly, I like it that way, too. I know people that have gone to festivals, couldn't afford it, volunteered, and wound up seeing very little of the festival because they expected 10 hours of of work out of them every day. You know, they they got their food paid for and they got to come to the festival, but they were exhausted by the time anything happened, or they were working during the workshops or during the performances. Uh, and that can be a little daunting. So I I have to give...

Chelle: It sounds like be cognizant of of what you're volunteering for and what the give and take is in that arrangement.

Chelle: My experience in that is that most places are are actually really good about it, you know. You might have your work shifts, but even the garbage shifts at places I've been at have been a blast. You get to meet people, you become a little crew. Like you mentioned working in the kitchen, Rob, it's it's not like your regular part-time job. It tends to be very very fun and an excellent way to meet people, and it's usually a a small amount of your time. So, you know, check the festival and see what they require in return for for what you get for it.

Rob: And that's what was going with that is that there's a wide variety of of that out there, so know what what you're getting yourself into. Yeah. Because say Jocelyn and Steve running Spirit Fire, they want you to be at the festival. They don't really want your work. So if you can't afford to be there, they do a bunch of fundraiser things. They actually raffle off every year a pass for next year. Oh, wow. And all of the money that goes to the prize, which they're donating, go toward a scholarship fund. So they have had times where they've had eight people on, and this is not a huge festival, it's a couple of hundred people, eight or nine people on complete scholarship with no additional work requirements because they want you to be at the festival.

Chelle: Nice.

Rob: Be at the festival. So not everybody's so generous, but they are.

Chelle: All right, magical people. So pagan festivals, I absolutely love them. I can tell you guys are very passionate about them. Why should someone go to something like this? Why should you go to any pagan festival, whether Faerie Fest, Dragon Fest, Spirit Fire, anything? Why should someone go to one of these?

Hank: We've mentioned it before. It's about communicating and about community. It's very validating to go to a large group like that and meet people that you can totally relate to and open up and have those four-hour conversations with. It's it's very liberating.

Chelle: Awesome.

Rob: It changes your life. You know, it changes your viewpoint. It's it's the same thing I think in some ways like, you know, I've I've traveled a bit. I worked in Europe for a while. Um, I've done a few things, and I know other people that have never left New York State, and they have a different perspective than I have. I have a way different perspective than they do. So this is a way to widen your perspective, choose choose what you want out of life, and go for it. And it can change your whole life. When this all started, I was actually an engineer. You know, I was a microchip designer, and it's like...

Chelle: And you went to a festival.

Rob: And I went to fest- That's where I started. In college, I started going to festivals. Yeah. I got out. I was an engineer for 13 years, and it was like it it changes, too, your perception of what's important. You get to find out what's really important to you, and that's just specifically to you. And it does cut down your your level of being able to tolerate crap in your life. Like, yeah, I don't I don't have to do that. I don't have to work for IBM for the rest of my life. So I don't.

Chelle: Now you have drums and mead and magic.

Rob: Yeah, drums, mead, and magic. That's its should be its own festival name right there. Right.

Hank: Yeah, what else do you need? It's uh Yeah, it does change your perspective very much.

Kestrel: I think for me, it fills up my cup. I have even come to Dragon Fest when I was living outside of Colorado and had to fly and borrow camping equipment and borrow a ride from somebody from the airport because the people there are just so special. There is an emptiness of sorts inside of me that slowly, you know, just like slowly gets...

Chelle: Like Rob said, it changed your life.

Kestrel: Yeah, exactly. And so we wait all year to see those people again. I mean, it fills up my cup, and I need that. I need that to go back out into the regular world and be a person who's perceived as weird. Who's you know, like on the weeks around the water cooler when everyone else is talking about church functions or whatever, I I cannot participate in that discussion because my church functions are going to be my "quote" church functions are going to be looked at as super weird and possibly devilish by people who don't understand that. And so to spend that time around people who get it, who believe in the magic and who share it with each other and teach each other how to find it, that fills up my cup, and I need that every year. That's why I keep going, and that's why I'm on staff, because Dragon Fest needs people to get involved in order to keep the festival moving.

Chelle: Getting involved is so important. We're going to post links to your guys's websites, to your social media, make sure people can find you. And, you know, we'll try to post links to some of the other festivals that we know about as well because we do know how hard it can be to find these places. But once you find it, get involved. Ask to volunteer, ask to be part of the committee, you know, to see if you can help to make them happen.

Chelle: Don't let the festival die, folks. Buy tickets, show up, support.

Rob: Yeah. You get the world you vote for.

Chelle: Oh, yes. That's absolutely true.

Rob: You vote with your presence and your attendance.

Chelle: Going to these places is definitely a wonderful way to connect with other pagans, find community, find yourself, really, in a lot of ways, it sounds.

Rob: Just a thought that entered my brain here. Uh, something that Kestrel had said that I experienced, too, in the early early years of me going is that I would go to a festival like this and I would experience such joy and such happiness and such a feeling of acceptance and growth and all of this stuff, and it was so freaking awesome. And then I would come home, and three days later, it's like, now what?

Chelle: Like a crash. Monday land.

Rob: Like a crash. So that's something to expect, too. Like if you go to a place and you do get that super high experience, just know that that crash is normal.

Chelle: There's an adjustment period back into day-to-day life.

Rob: There is. You had all this stuff and you can't take it home with you, but that that is a misnomer. You can take it home with you. You know, I I definitely changed my life around that. I like say, I don't work for IBM anymore, so I go to festivals all the time. I made it my profession. For like three years after I left IBM before I opened Imagicka, all I did was festivals. It was year-round. I just came home, I built drums, I made and then I would go to a festival, I'd set up a booth there and sell drums, and then go to see stuff, and you you adopt that into your life and it becomes your life. It becomes, you know, like you say, it's an unveiling of who you really are.

Laylla: I like that. I like that.

Chelle: Me too. That's pretty true. That's pretty true. I think think I definitely found big chunks of myself at festivals, for sure. Kestrel, you want to give us a little how do we find Dragon Fest? How people find that?

Kestrel: So, I always recommend people come to our website first because you can learn anything you want to know about Dragon Fest on our website is www.dragonfest.org. We also have a Facebook group where you can join and ask questions, tell us how excited you are to attend Dragon Fest, anything you want to talk about. We are a very chaty bunch. We not only have a Facebook group, but we have a Discord channel as well. Um, we talk about, you know, my tent has a hole, does anyone have a patch kit that I could borrow before we get up there or whatever, you know. All of that conversation takes place before we even get on the land right there in our Facebook group. So, Dragon Fest of Colorado is our handle on Facebook, on Instagram, and on TikTok.

Chelle: So, the community starts even before people get on the land?

Kestrel: Yes, and it continues. You know, this is, I don't know if this is particular to every regional pagan community, but the Dragon Fest community, maybe because we've been doing this for so long, we are very connected to each other even outside of the festival.

Laylla: That's awesome. Well, we will definitely put links to all of that, and I'm going to put links to the Faerie Festival as well, so you guys can get tickets to these if you'd like to. There still is time. Now, before we wrap up, Rob, you actually are a sponsor for Faerie Festival. You mentioned the name of your store, but I want you to give us the details. Give us the name and the website so that people around the globe can check your store out.

Rob: You bet. So, it's Imagicka. It's at 39 Court Street in Binghamton. Our website, which doesn't really work all that well, is imagickaonline.com. I-M-A-G-I-C-K-A. That's the name of the store.

Chelle: We can find you on Facebook, too, right?

Rob: Yeah, you can find us on Facebook, too, and, you know, we we are definitely customer service is our forte. So, if you need something, let me know. And same is true like we do a lot of drumming stuff. I rebuild drums every day, it seems. If I'm not working on meat, I'm working on drums or I'm at the at the shop.

Chelle: So, if you need your drum reheaded, contact Imagicka Online.

Laylla: And I did, and he did, and it's awesome. So, I can vouch for that. We will put links to all of this. So, if you have questions for anyone, if you would like to go to these festivals, we'll have the information there for you guys to check it out. Hopefully, you all get a chance to check out some type of festival, either this year or coming up next year. As always, thank you so much for listening to Back on the Broomstick. We will see you next week. And thank you so so much to our guests. You guys have been amazing.

Chelle: Thank you guys so much.

Hank: Thank you.

Kestrel: Thank you. Happy to be here.

Laylla: Thank you for listening to Back on the Broomstick. We'll be back next week with Chelle's birthday episode where we talk about birthday tarot spreads. In the meantime, be wise, be wicked, and keep it witchy.
