Laylla: Welcome to Back on the Broomstick, a modern witch's spoken word grimoire, where two witchy friends from way back are reconnecting to their pagan roots after a long period of mundanity.

Chelle: We're re-walking the path of the wise and trying out all the latest spells, rituals, and magical theory in today's witchcraft and pagan practices.

Laylla: So grab your wand and your incense, your cauldron and your crystals, and join us as we get back on the broomstick.

Laylla: Hi, and welcome to Back on the Broomstick. And today, I am super excited to say that we are doing Tarot cards again because I love Tarot cards, and it's my bestie's birthday. Happy birthday, Chelle.

Chelle: Thank you. You know, every year, it just gets better. It really does. And this year, I knew we were going to do a Tarot episode. So, instead of doing the traditional birthday spreads you find online or what have you, I have created a new birthday spread.

Laylla: So, in this episode, not only are we going to talk about Chelle's custom Tarot spread for her birthday this year, we're going to talk about why you might do Tarot birthday spreads, how to find your birthday number, your Tarot significator. We have a lot in store for people today, Chelle.

Chelle: I'm excited. So, why don't we talk birthdays, numbers, and Tarot?

Laylla: Awesome. So, before we dive in, I'm Laylla.

Chelle: And I'm Chelle, the birthday girl.

Laylla: The birthday girl, Gemini. I was going to sing you a happy birthday song, but I am not going to subject our listeners to that, so you're all welcome.

Chelle: Well, I just want to point out that when this airs is on my actual birthday, so, you know, not that I am asking for some love messages, but feel free. I'll be like, "Yay."

Laylla: I'll ask for you. Send her some birthday love. Give her messages. Say happy birthday on our Instagram, on our Facebook, on our YouTube, wherever you find this podcast.

Chelle: Write in my day, people.

Laylla: She needs a little cheering up, so let's tell the birthday girl how much we appreciate her witchy fabulousness. So, I have a couple things for you, Chelle, before we get into your Tarot spread.

Chelle: Okay.

Laylla: You've talked about birthday Tarot spreads before. I've talked about birthday Tarot spreads, and we like to do Tarot readings on significant dates, on New Year's, on a birthday, you know, on the wheel of the year holidays or the—

Chelle: I have even—I have even mentioned in a past episode that I don't like that January 1st plot out your year reading. I think that is more of a birthday thing. You know, you do your what does the next year have in store on your birthday as opposed to January 1st.

Laylla: I do both. I want to know all of the information. I want to know my full year spread and my birthday year spread. So, yeah, I'm a little Tarot greedy that way.

Chelle: Well, you know, actually, for me, that might not be a bad idea if I started doing that because with my birthday being May 31st, it might as well be June, which is six months after the New Year, so it's almost like I'm at the halfway point. Where am I at now? You know?

Laylla: Oh, that's a great idea.

Chelle: Yeah, I never thought of that. Sorry.

Laylla: You know, my birthday is so close to the beginning of the year, it almost doesn't even make sense, but I love that.

Chelle: You see what I'm saying? I'm like one day off of exactly six months.

Laylla: That's pretty cool. I didn't think of it that way.

Chelle: All right, put that in my notebook for next year.

Laylla: Now, I know a lot of people are very familiar with a birthday Tarot spread that I believe is in a circle with 12 cards to represent each of the 12 months, and then a card in the center to represent like the unifying theme of the whole year. I'm not sure who did it. Was it Mary K. Greer?

Chelle: I don't remember who did it, but I do remember that spread, and Mary K. Greer is the creator of my all-time favorite Tarot deck ever in life, just saying.

Laylla: Yeah, and I—and I apologize. I'll see if I can find it and stick it in the show notes. I'm not sure who made that particular spread. But that was popular back in the day when we started doing Tarot spreads. Everyone was like, "Oh, you have to do this birthday spread or—or this year-long spread." Because you can do that 13-card spread at any point. It doesn't have to be on your birthday. It's just these dates sometimes hold a lot of emotional weight.

Chelle: Meaning, yeah.

Laylla: Yeah, and meaning, so that can imbue your spell or your reading with a lot of power because the date itself has power to it. So, your birthday, obviously, your solar return, has a shit ton of energy that you could use to fuel this reading and find out what your year has in store for you. But you can do it anytime, kind of like the cinnamon blow for your door. You don't have to do it on the first.

Chelle: If you don't do it right on your birthday, it's okay.

Laylla: Right, exactly. So, you can do this wheel of the year spread, and basically, it's shuffle your cards and then lay them out in a circle going clockwise. I like to start at 1:00 and go around clockwise up till 12:00 and put one card for each number.

Chelle: Whereas I start at 12:00.

Laylla: And honestly, whatever floats your boat. Whatever works for you. Maybe you want to picture it like the numbers on a clock and pick the number that corresponds to your birth month.

Chelle: If you did it on your birthday, you could even pick the hour of your birth.

Laylla: Yeah, instead of starting on the number that corresponds to your birth month or your birthday, you could do it on your birth hour, just like the clock. I love that. I didn't even think of that.

Chelle: I mean, you know, I'm just pulling shit out of my ass here, but—but a good idea.

Laylla: Some of the most magical stuff comes from there.

Chelle: Right?

Laylla: Oh, that just sounds awful. Birthday or not, that's bad. All right, so—

Chelle: Now, talk to me about birth numbers because I think we should talk about that before we talk about using them in spreads.

Laylla: Birth numbers are one of the very first things I learned from Buckland's Complete Book of Witchcraft.

Chelle: Love it.

Laylla: I remember going through that book as a witchling and, again, very, very Wiccan-based, but honestly, I still think it is a phenomenal foundation for magic—any magical practice, even if you don't go the Wiccan route. It has such good foundational information there. But one of the things that he talked about was how to determine your birth number. And the way you do that—

Chelle: Even in—even in witchcraft, you can't get away from freaking math, man.

Laylla: No, you can't. Math is magical, Chelle. Math is very magical.

Chelle: It's scary.

Laylla: That's true, too. But it's pretty easy to figure out. So, you take the two-digit month of your birth, the two-digit day, and, you know, for our European friends, swap that. Two-digit day, two-digit month. Doesn't matter how you add those. Then you're also going to add the four-digit year.

Chelle: All four, people.

Laylla: So, you can also do your number for this year. So, take your birthday, May 31st. So, for this year, you would take 05 plus 31 plus 20 plus 24.

Chelle: Wait, why are you doing—why are you doing this year?

Laylla: Because you can also do your number for this year. So, you'll have your birth number, and then every year, you'll have a different number that's your number for that particular year.

Chelle: If you don't like your birth number, pick another.

Laylla: Well, the birth number will always be your number, but every year, you'll have another number that will give you even more influence, so you can go by both of those numbers. All right, so there's two different ways to do this. The first way that I learned from Buckland is how to determine your birth number, and it's very easy. You take the two-digit day, the two-digit month, and the four-digit year of your birth, and you just add every single number straight across as if it's a long number problem of addition. If you come up with a multi-digit number, then you keep adding down until you get one digit. So, for your birthday, 5/31/1975, you would add 0 plus 5 plus 3 plus 1 plus 1 plus 9 plus 7 plus 5, and you come up with the number 31. So, you simplify that down, and you get the number 4. To find your Tarot card birth number, you do it slightly differently because you're going to end up with two numbers. The first one is going to be a number 22 or lower, and the second number is going to be the single digit that's the same as your birth number. Sounds confusing. It's not really. So, the way you do that is you add it just slightly differently. You still take two-digit day, two-digit month, and four-digit year, but you break it up into chunks of two. So, for Chelle, she would add 05 plus 31 plus 19 plus 75. Those numbers add up to 130. So, you take the first two numbers and then either the second single digit or two digits and add them together. So, Chelle's first two numbers are 13, and her second number is 0. You add those together, you get 13. So, 13 is her first Tarot card, which is the Death card, and then you would add the 1 and the 3 together to get 4, which is her second Tarot card, the Emperor. So, the second number will always equal your birth number.

Chelle: Yikes.

Laylla: It's a lot easier when you write it down and start doing it, I swear. If that's too confusing, there are a number of websites out there. I'll put a link to one or two of them in the show notes where all you have to do is put in the day, month, and year of your birth, and it'll calculate your two cards for you. So, that's how you find your birth cards in Tarot. So, you would be able to use either of those cards as your significator. What would be my number for this year? Eight?

Laylla: All right, well, to calculate the number for this year, I'm going to save our listeners and myself a lot of pain, and we're just going to use the website. So, if I put in your month, day, and this year, the calculator gives you 17 and, yes, 8. So, the Star and Strength are your cards for this year. Now, there's a list out there of each astrological sign and what it corresponds to as far as Tarot cards go. So, you could use that list as well to pick your special spread significator, like Gemini, according to this list, and this is from Benebell Wen's website, and has the correspondence of Gemini is for the Lovers. So, the Lovers card is what corresponds to Gemini.

Chelle: Oh.

Laylla: So, you could also use that as your significator. And a significator is basically just a card that you pick to represent you, to represent your energy. And that's really what all these numbers are. All this crappy math that we've been doing is really just a—a magical way to pick a card that aligns with your energy. And then every reading that you do, if you start from that card, will carry your energy through the reading and give you something much more personal to yourself.

Chelle: Now, the spread I'm going to talk about that I kind of made up here, I use the Emperor because I always thought that 4 was kind of like my birth card, my birth number.

Laylla: And it is. Four is your birth number, yes.

Chelle: So, I go with the Emperor for my significator as my card. But I kind of like using the Lovers for Gemini. That's a good twist. Ah. Do you know that we have the exact same two cards, 13 and 4?

Laylla: Really?

Chelle: Even though we were born on different days, different months, and different years, my numbers are also 13 and 4.

Laylla: Are you shitting me?

Chelle: I am not. I am not.

Chelle: See, and you know what? That is why we were meant to be BFFs.

Laylla: That's exactly right. So, 13 and 4 are also my cards according to my birth number. But I'm an Aquarius, so my astrological card is the Star. And my card for this year is, let's see. So, mine are 11 and 2.

Chelle: Wait, what is—what is the Aquarius card?

Laylla: The Star. I'll list them all. I'll also put this list on our website as well, but I'll go through them very quickly. Aries is the Emperor, Taurus is the Hierophant, Gemini the Lovers, Cancer the Chariot, Leo Strength, Virgo the Hermit, Libra Justice, Scorpio Death, Sagittarius Temperance, Capricorn the Devil, Aquarius the Star, and Pisces the Moon. These are all the astrological correspondences. And again, I'll—I'll put Benebell Wen's list up on our website.

Chelle: Here's an idea. You could use your sun, moon, and rising associated cards as three significators.

Laylla: Yes, you could absolutely pick according to whatever, wherever in your chart you want, and that could really narrow that in to you. You know, you could use your sun, your moon, your rising, and your birth number card and really make that tuned up to you.

Chelle: Now, here's a side note. We're talking about significator cards, but I know, generally, I don't use them. I kind of reserve for special occasions kind of thing with me.

Laylla: I used to.

Chelle: But if you're not into it, you know, the readings we talk about today or any other, you can just ditch that whole significator part because usually I do.

Laylla: When I first learned Tarot, many, many moons ago, I learned the Celtic Cross, and I was told you must choose a significator. You had to.

Chelle: Yeah, I was told that, too.

Laylla: I was told it was super important. Like, I don't know, you're going to unleash the demons of hell or something if you didn't pick a significator. You know, it's kind of like using a Ouija board without a circle. I don't know.

Chelle: Yeah, and—and then I met you, and we both questioned it, and we're like, "Fuck it. We're doing it our way."

Laylla: We gradually just stopped doing it. We were doing Tarot readings for each other and for other people, and honestly—

Chelle: It didn't feel necessary.

Laylla: It didn't feel necessary. In magic, that's going to happen. If you're doing something and it just doesn't work, it doesn't feel right, don't do it anymore, you know? If there's like a huge reason for it, obviously research it, but that's kind of like the whole Tarot thing where you must be gifted your Tarot deck. No, that—that's—that's pretty new, actually. But, you know, if it doesn't work for you, if it doesn't resonate, just leave it alone.

Chelle: Now, I want to talk about my birthday Tarot spread. Now, I am not going to discuss the cards I pulled. That's just for me. But, you know, like you said, you can do a round, circular, 12-month thing. You know, you can do any one of these you find on TikTok or Facebook. But I've come up with a—an interesting birthday spread. It actually involves putting out cards in the shape of the number you are turning. Unfortunately, to use my example to explain this, I'm going to have to divulge how old I am turning. But, you know, whatever, here we are. So, I have done a spread in the shape of a 4 and a 9. I'm going to be 49. You might say to yourself, "Well, what order are you laying down these cards?" First and foremost, when you're laying them down, and I've done this two ways now, I did a 4 and a 9 separate, and I laid down the cards in order as if I was handwriting it. And that would be my suggestion if you use this spread at home. Lay out the cards in order as if you were writing the—the number. But then you gave me a good idea. Turn it into a sigil.

Laylla: Yeah.

Chelle: So, I reversed the 9 and have the 4 and the 9 sharing that same leg and made my 49 spread really a 49 sigil.

Laylla: After you had laid those cards out and you showed me the spread, I felt chills. Like, it's perfect. I love the Tarot sigil spread. It looked like it worked really well.

Chelle: So, I have my significator as my birth card, uh, number 4. And then I did, like I said, a 4 and a 9, which I will post pictures. I'm not going to post pictures of my actual spread, but I will lay out a spread and show you. And no matter how old you are going to be, I think this works. I kind of do it in a, you know, just as you would a New Year spread. What does this year bring? You know, where am I headed? What is on the horizon? And same as writing it and laying them down, kind of read it in the same pattern as you would write it.

Laylla: I really like the idea of turning the number into a sigil. Like, not just—I mean, okay, say you're turning 36, and, you know, you do a big 3 and a big 6. That's a lot of cards. And that's okay. You know, that could be great. But I also like the idea of playing around before you lay the cards out and put that 3 and the 6 on a piece of paper and start messing with it until you get a sigil made out of those numbers that maybe only has nine cards, like the 3 plus the 6, nine cards total in it. You know, find some way to magically and mathematically relate those things, and then make a sigil out of it and do the reading in the form of that sigil. And that's going to be very, very powerful and have a lot of meaning for you personally.

Chelle: Well, you know, I—I—I showed you the spread, and it did seem like a lot of cards. But I look at it as maybe I got a big message this year.

Laylla: Exactly. Yeah, and the traditional one is 13 cards anyway, so I figure as long as you're keeping it under 20, you're probably good.

Chelle: Yeah, yeah, and, you know, maybe one year you're not going to have as—as big of a message as maybe the next.

Laylla: Right.

Chelle: I—I kind of look at the significator as the kickoff and the ending. You know, like, what does this mean with the significator card, but it kind of also wraps it up at the end, I feel, too.

Laylla: Yeah, and I love a significator in this case. Like, we were just saying that we don't really use them anymore except for special occasions. This is really a time when you want it, you know?

Chelle: Right, right.

Laylla: Just shuffling the cards and reading them, that's one thing. But if you purposely pick a card to represent you and your next year of your life from your birthday forward, that's powerful. And I think that adds a whole other layer to the reading.

Chelle: Well, and that is why I liked your idea of—well, actually, you kind of sparked it. It was kind of my idea, but whatever, it doesn't matter. We'll both take credit.

Laylla: Us together. We're a good team.

Chelle: Using not only my birth number, but the Gemini card and my moon and my rising card.

Laylla: Mhm. Yeah.

Chelle: Which would be the Star and Temperance. So, that would be almost like—

Laylla: Chelle.

Chelle: What?

Laylla: Your cards for this year, your numbers are 17 and 8, and that's the Star and Strength.

Chelle: Well, Star is Aquarius, and Aquarius is—

Laylla: We—isn't that your rising? Your moon. Aquarius is your moon, right?

Chelle: My rising is Sagittarius, which is Temperance.

Laylla: Okay. That's pretty cool.

Chelle: I could use all four, you know, my—my Gemini, my moon, my rising, and my number, my birth number.

Laylla: Mhm.

Chelle: And have kind—you know what I mean?

Laylla: Exactly.

Chelle: You can do anything.

Laylla: Now, in a spread like this, in a sigil spread like this, each position doesn't necessarily have a specific meaning.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: But together, this is supposed to be read more intuitively. You know, especially if you've created the sigil ahead of time. Once you start putting these cards down, as a reader, you should start to see a pattern. You should start to see a story unfold. There'll be major themes that will run through it that you'll be able to pick out. I'm going to tell you to journal it.

Chelle: Of course.

Laylla: Take a picture and write down all your impressions. Write it all down.

Chelle: Actually, this would be a good one for a Tarot journal.

Laylla: You should. This is—this is a ritual and a spell in and of itself. You should write it all down, keep it digital, write it handwritten, take pictures of it. If—I'm not opposed to taking pictures of readings. I know some people don't like to, but whatever, I think it's fine.

Chelle: I usually do and send them to you.

Laylla: Yeah, I think that's always acceptable. but definitely cool to keep it for yourself as well so that you can look back on it. But then once you've done your whole, "This is how I feel about it. These are the feelings and the ideas and the thoughts that are coming to me. This is what my intuition is saying. This is what my guides have to say," then get the book out.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: Get the book for that specific deck. Get your favorite book of correspondences. Get more than one book. I don't care. And then write down what the book says to go along with it because, especially when you're reading for yourself or someone you know really well, man, you have a lot of layers in front of you. You have rose-colored glasses or smoke-colored glasses or, you know.

Chelle: Kind of like how you and I are bad at reading for each other because,

Laylla: Yeah.

Chelle: we don't want to hurt each other's feelings or,

Laylla: Yeah, or sometimes I'll already know something and I'll say, "Well, hey, Chelle, I know you told me you're going to the Thousand Islands next weekend, but I see a trip near water coming up." So I don't know if I'm seeing that because I already knew you were doing it,

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: or because it's in the cards.

Chelle: We know too much.

Laylla: That's right. So sometimes you have to put those disclaimers out there. But when you're doing it for yourself, especially then, you're going to want an impartial person on the other side, an impartial book to tell you what you may have missed or what you may have colored differently.

Chelle: Balance out your intuition.

Laylla: Because there's going to be a lot of preconceived ideas and hopes and dreams and fears in there, too. So the book, being neutral ground, is going to be good for you and for your reading.

Chelle: I mean, and if you don't have a book handy or the, you know, I'm getting to an age that who can read those? Who? Who has who has the eyesight for those things? Google that card.

Laylla: Well, you did just turn 49, like you told everybody, so maybe it's time for glasses.

Chelle: Jeez, Louise. But you know what? That just means next year, party of the century.

Laylla: That's right. We got big trip planned for your 50th, man. So Travel Channel, call us.

Chelle: Right?

Laylla: For real.

Chelle: Get yourself a Tarot deck for your birthday. Chelle does. She gets a couple.

Laylla: You know, I I feel like the whole month of May, I get one like every week.

Chelle: Oh, I love it. That's wonderful.

Laylla: And then my kids, they get me one for Mother's Day and my birthday. Yeah, May, big Tarot month for me.

Chelle: It's like your Tarot month.

Laylla: I I do have I do have a recommendation for your number sigil spread.

Chelle: Ooh.

Laylla: And that is, 49 is a big number, people. It really is. It's not like I'm 10. I ended up using a mini deck.

Chelle: Is it regular playing card size or smaller?

Laylla: A a little smaller, actually. I did the Tarot of Pagan Cats for my birthday spread.

Chelle: So cute.

Laylla: Because it's smaller, the read didn't seem so huge. You know what I mean?

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: So yeah, like if space is an issue, get yourself a little pocket deck.

Chelle: Those are super cute. I love those. They come in all different sizes from huge to teeny tiny.

Chelle: I have huge and I have teeny tiny.

Laylla: You could do things like add up your age and just do that many cards. You could do as many cards as you are old, although some of those can get really big.

Chelle: I am a self-confessed anti-oracle person, except for the very, very few that I I do like. Can you give any suggestions about using an oracle deck for a birthday spread, or would you kind of say maybe the same thing, put it in a similar spread style, but just read them more in the oracle context?

Laylla: Yeah, I think I would do a little cartomancy there. So make your birthday sigil and then lay the oracle cards out exactly the same way. I also like Magpie decks or Frankenstein decks for this, if you have those. Or if there's a specific, maybe I should explain what those are. A Magpie deck or Frankenstein deck is a deck where you have taken cards from multiple different decks and put them together, either to create a 78-card traditional deck or one that has a lot more or a lot fewer cards. I've also seen some people who will create a 78-card deck that's all the Star card from 78 different Tarot decks. So you could do something like that. Maybe there's a certain energy that you want to bring in for your year. Maybe you're looking for love, so you would choose a whole bunch of Cups cards and Pentacles cards for stability and and everything that says love and relationship to you and just do your reading using those cards. There's no rules with a Magpie deck. You can do it any way that you want. Or you can do oracle deck, Magpie deck, or Tarot deck, and again, you're not reading specific positions, you're more reading the cards as a whole, as a story, as a an intuitive reading for your year.

Chelle: Now, I I am going to put an offer out there, and I did not discuss this with you prior, and you are going to be just as surprised as the listeners.

Laylla: Yay! What is it? What is it? What is it? What is it?

Chelle: Okay, because it is my birthday and I am feeling chipper and birthday-like, any of our listeners who are a Gemini, listen up. Email backonthebroomstick@gmail.com and tell us your day, month, and year. But again, you have to be a Gemini for this, people. Day, month, and year. And I will do my birthday number spread for you and email you back a Tarot reading. I will also attach to the email pictures of your spread. So if you are a Gemini, send your stuff backonthebroomstick@gmail.com.

Laylla: Hey witches, future Laylla here. The winner of the Gemini Tarot reading has been chosen. Thanks so much to everyone who entered.

Chelle: And what I will do is, first of all, I will let Laylla pick the winner. Second of all, if your birthday is May 31st like mine, I might guarantee that I pick you, just because. If you if you are a birthday buddy, you get an advantage. But yeah, any Gemini, email us, month, day, year, and Laylla will pick a winner.

Laylla: I'm so excited. This is awesome. Congratulations, Geminis. This is pretty kick-ass. So yeah, email me at backonthebroomstick@gmail.com. Tell me your Gemini birth date. You'll be in the running to win a birthday sigil Tarot spread from Chelle.

Chelle: But you do get special preference if we share a birthday, just saying.

Laylla: You do get special Hey, I get to pick, though, so.

Chelle: I know, but but if there's if there's any May 31st, we got to go with them.

Laylla: We will. We will. We will. So let us know.

Chelle: Brooke Shields is going to message us because her and I are birthday besties.

Laylla: Oh, well, happy birthday, Brooke Shields.

Chelle: Right?

Laylla: There are lots of different birthday Tarot spreads that you can do, not just the circle one, not just our sigil spread.

Chelle: I mean, if you're comfort if you're comfortable with the Celtic Cross, do the freaking Celtic Cross on your birthday. Like, nobody gives a shit if you're doing that or my spread or the circle spread or anybody's. Whatever works for you, that's the spread you do.

Laylla: Just pull two cards. I mean, you can do anything. It doesn't have to be some special sigil spread. You can just do one or two cards. I've seen a seven-card spread that's really nice, just in the shape of like a a crescent moon. Three cards rising, the top card, and then three cards descending.

Chelle: Sometimes I think about, you know, whatever my question is or or what my what my what what is the point of my reading, and sometimes I just lay down cards until it feels right to stop. For those of you who saw our beautiful B-Tarot post on the Instagram and Facebook, I had done a spread for that, and for some reason, I just felt like three cards on top, three cards on bottom. I don't know. Sometimes I just lay down cards until I feel like stopping, and that's okay, too.

Laylla: Right. It doesn't have to be a traditional spread. The traditional spreads have the benefit of the weight of history of a lot of people who have used them. They've been worked on. They're tried and true. You know, people know that it works.

Chelle: And maybe each position has its own significant meaning. You know what I mean?

Laylla: There's nothing saying that you can't just pick cards until you feel like you're done and then read them as they come or read what you have there. Like Chelle said, sometimes those positions have

Chelle: Weight to them.

Laylla: Yeah, the weight of magic of synergy. They work together really well in those positions. The Celtic Cross has been read, I don't know, for freaking ever.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: Longer than Chelle's been alive, that's for sure.

Chelle: Hey now. Hey now. Hey now.

Laylla: Hey, it's older. I'm saying it's older than you. There's not a lot of things, but at least that spread is older than you.

Chelle: Just remember, it ain't gray hair. It's glitter hair. Glitter hair, people.

Laylla: So you can do anything that you want, really. I really like our sigil reading, mostly because we've tied in so many different things to tie it into your energy, to bring it back to you every single time. It's your age. It's your significators. It's your sigil that you created. The more personal you make this, the better it's going to work for you and the better reading that you're going to get. You know, maybe some people celebrate their birthday month. I've done it on occasion. It's fun to just have every day be your birthday.

Chelle: My daughter literally thinks her birthday is 31 days long.

Laylla: And whose fault is that, Mom?

Chelle: Right? Her father.

Laylla: Her father. That's right.

Chelle: She deserves it, though. She's wonderful.

Laylla: Right. But you could do a one or two-card draw every single day of your birthday month. You know, pull your significator or not. You yourself are your significator, so you don't need a card to do that, but you could. Definitely journal them because this is something you're going to want to look back on as you go through the year, as you move through this solar return. You're going to want to take a look at that reading that you did on or about on your birthday and see what uh how it's holding up, see if the year has really gone that way. And there's so much fun. I have a ton of them, particularly for New Year's readings, going back, you know, quite a few years, and it's really great, not just that year, but years and years later to look back at those readings and see where you were at and, you know, what worked, what didn't work.

Chelle: Well, and you know, I liked what you said about doing a card a day for for the whole month because that would be a good way to kind of journal and plot that out. My birth month, 31 days, I could pull 31 cards and make that 31 cards kind of my story.

Laylla: And just do it one card a day and then look back at all the cards together and see what kind of story it's telling you.

Chelle: Right. Right.

Laylla: The cards are really here for you. They're here for your subconscious. They're here for you to get in touch with your magic, with your center, with your intuition.

Chelle: The more you make it your own, I think the better the message.

Laylla: Absolutely. And I know I keep harping on journaling, but the more you can keep track of it, the better you're going to get at it.

Chelle: I call it note-taking.

Laylla: Hey, whatever works. If you're writing it down, taking pictures of it, putting it in a notes app on your phone, as long as you have it to refer back to with your feelings and ideas, it's going to help you grow as a reader.

Chelle: I got sucked into Tarot journaling, and you know why? The freaking stickers.

Laylla: Stickers.

Chelle: They got me with the damn stickers. Like, come on. You might as well make me meditate.

Laylla: Who doesn't love a good sticker, especially Tarot card stickers?

Chelle: I know. So yeah, if you ever doubt journaling Tarot, get stickers. You know, as far as when I talked about using your sun, your moon, and your rising as significators,

Laylla: Yeah.

Chelle: what kind of that view can be is your sun, which for me would be Gemini, is kind of what you show other people. And my moon, which is Aquarius, who you want to be. And my rising, uh which is Sagittarius, who you want other people to think you are. Because sometimes what other people think and what you think are two different things. And I'm not saying one is better or worse than the other, but they are two realities we almost live with. So if you used your sun, your moon, and your rising, you can kind of use those significators as like, almost like the different aspects of who you are. You know what I mean? You know, who who am I? Who do I think I am? And who do I want to be?

Laylla: That's so true. Wow.

Chelle: You know, what what other people think about you could be the who I think I am, you know. Who are you? Who do you think you are? And who do you want to be? And that could be how your sun, your moon, and your rising are uh represented as significators, you know what I'm saying?

Laylla: Right. I also like, once you've laid those significators down based on your astrological Major Arcana cards, to then shuffle the deck, ask, "Who am I? Who do I want to be? And who do I think I am?" and shuffle those cards and then lay a card on top of each of those significators

Chelle: Ooh.

Laylla: and see what the lesson is for that part of you.

Chelle: Ooh, I like that.

Laylla: Right? So then you get the lesson for each of those aspects of your personality.

Chelle: And folks, this is how a podcast is born when Laylla and I get together.

Laylla: Right? We're so good together, damn.

Chelle: We are. But yeah, so as a reminder, if you are a Gemini, email us, backonthebroomstick@gmail.com, give us your month, day, and year. Laylla will pick a winner for a birthday sigil Tarot reading, and special preference if you're born on the 31st of May. Open to Geminis only.

Laylla: I'm sorry, Aquarians. I didn't think of it back in February. Chelle's got all the good ideas.

Chelle: You know, I can't help it.

Laylla: So I will put the information on how to come up with your birth number, your two Tarot cards, your two Major Arcana Tarot cards, as well as your birth number, the chart that shows you what all the astrological correspondences are for each astrological sign, and we'll also put up information on how to do our sigil birthday Tarot spread,

Chelle: which I will post a picture of mine.

Laylla: Send birthday wishes on Facebook. We have a fan discussion group, Back on the Broomstick Podcast Discussion Group on Facebook. Send them there. Send them by email. Go to our Instagram @backonthebroomstick and send them directly to her through DM. Help her have a happy, happy day. So I love you, Chelle. Happy birthday. I am so glad that you're here, and I'm going to do a Tarot reading for you and send it to you. I'll do your sigil and and send it to you for your birthday.

Chelle: Thank you.

Laylla: You're welcome. So I hope everyone has had a wonderful day on Chelle's birthday. Happy Friday, happy 31st, happy almost freaking June. Don't forget to do your cinnamon spell tomorrow.

Chelle: Happy season of the Gemini. Woo!

Laylla: That's right. So we will see you next week on Friday for Back on the Broomstick. Thank you all so very much. Please like, subscribe, put up a review, give us stars. We appreciate all of it, and it really helps the show out. So stay wise, stay wicked,

Chelle: and keep it witchy. Happy birthday to me.

Laylla: Happy birthday, Chelle. Woo!
