Laylla: Last week, you had the great idea to talk about Route 66, so let me get all set up and do an introduction. Y'all set for 66, Chelle?

Chelle: Yeah. As ready as I can be. I'm not ready for 66.

Laylla: What do you mean you're not ready?

Chelle: I had a good idea to do this, and then I had some Mercury retrograde in my life and totally forgot about it.

Laylla: Uh-oh. All right, let me do an introduction, and then we'll we'll delve into it. Hold on. Hey, it's 4:20 AM. High and welcome to episode 66 of The Stoned Witches Hour. On this podcast, two best friends separated by way too many miles get together to smoke copious amounts of the greenest ganja in the land while telling each other supernatural tales from across the USA. And today, for episode 66, we're coming at you with some true crime and ghoulish tales from the Mother Road herself, Route 66. So get your ghosty kicks on Route 66, and I'm Laylla.

Chelle: I'm a a Mercury retrograde sufferer named Chelle. Get your kicks on Route 66, wasn't that a commercial?

Laylla: Maybe. I think it might have even been a song, and I'm pretty sure it was in a movie, too.

Chelle: I've got to make a confession to everybody right from the get-go.

Laylla: You started something before we did this intro, and I have a sneaking suspicion I know what it is.

Chelle: I have a confession, dear listeners. Mercury retrograde is kicking my ass in every way and shape and form. And I forgot we were doing it on Route 66. My bad.

Laylla: It was your idea! You said—

Chelle: You know, I've been I've been having a bad minute here. Look, I forgot. Like, I totally forgot. Like, I remembered that I I remembered that we were recording today, but—

Laylla: I was about to give you points for that, that you at least remembered we were recording, and you have a story ready. You do have a story ready, right?

Chelle: I do have a story, but it has—

Laylla: Oh, good.

Chelle: It has nothing to do with Route 66. I'm sorry.

Laylla: Oh, man. So, wait a minute.

Chelle: I'm a bad I was goblin last week, I'm goblin this week. What the hell's up with me?

Laylla: Am I the one who showed up to the costume party in regular clothes, or are you the one who showed up to the regular party in a costume?

Chelle: I think I'm the one who showed up at the regular party in a costume, because I'm feeling like a jackass right now.

Laylla: Okay, well, then I'm prepared. I'm the prepared one. How weird is that?

Chelle: Wait a minute, isn't that like a weird twist of fate, how you're—

Laylla: Absolutely.

Chelle: You're prepared, and I'm just like, "What is going on?"

Laylla: It must be a Mercury retrograde thing, because obviously, if I'm the prepared one and you don't have a 66 story, then—

Chelle: That shit's definitely flipped on its head.

Laylla: And I'm really glad this must be why we were talking about it, and you said, "We should talk about Mercury retrograde for our other podcast, Back on the Broomstick." Now I know why.

Chelle: Yeah. I mean, I did, like right before we got on, I did do like a quick Google search of some stuff I think is cool that I know nothing about. Like, there's Did you know there's something called the Zombie Road on Route 66?

Laylla: Wait, what?

Chelle: Yeah! This is why I wish I remembered this.

Laylla: Yeah, because you obviously, in just a short period of time, found something pretty cool. Part of it's called the Zombie Road?

Chelle: Yeah, in Wildwood, Missouri. So, I guess it was like a hotspot in the 1950s for, quote-unquote, paranormal zombie sightings. You know, infamous ghost lights, spirits on the street. You know, you know how you like those ones of the What do they call them, the ghosty hitchhikers?

Laylla: Oh, yeah.

Chelle: Some of that on the Zombie Road. That's why they call it, I guess, the Zombie Road. I'll have to delve into that next time I remember.

Laylla: So this time it was Mercury retrograde and not the super good weed you're smoking that caused you to forget?

Chelle: The weed is really good, I'm not going to lie. Like, it it is. It is.

Laylla: So what are you smoking this week, Chelle?

Chelle: I went back to that Remember, like, I don't know, like a month ago, Banana Puddin' Tang?

Laylla: Oh, I do. I do remember that.

Chelle: I got that again, but then I did of I did a I did a fun take it back to like 1995 thing. So I took the Banana Puddin' Tang, and then I also took some of that Midnight that I had last week. I ground them together, and I made a salad.

Laylla: Oh, you made a salad.

Chelle: I did.

Laylla: Nice, nice. That's an old-school salad. Now, that's the way to get really, really high. Nobody's sure why, but we all know that weed that you mix together is more potent than each individual cultivar alone.

Chelle: Somehow it's better, damn it.

Laylla: It just works. It is That's a known fact.

Chelle: Yeah, there's I don't know the science behind it, but it works.

Laylla: It totally works. Well, I am smoking some Gush Mints.

Chelle: Ooh. How come they always call it mints and it doesn't taste minty, damn them?

Laylla: No, there is no mints at all. This is, let's see, Gush Mints, heavy indica. Usually has a THC around 26 to 30% depending, and I would say this is probably on the lower end of that, 26-ish percent, as if I could tell you like the difference between 2% or not. I can tell you I'm getting pretty high, but I wouldn't say like couch-locked high. So—

Chelle: Now, because I mixed like a 29 and a 30 together, I'm just going to sit here and pretend that it's like a 40%. No, that's not right. A a 59%. So we're going to pretend I'm smoking a 59% today.

Laylla: Well, I think between that Banana Puddin' Tang and the Mercury retrograde, you probably are at about 59% THC.

Chelle: But you know what? It's kind of piney tasting, which it's not like I care, and it's not like I'm not going to smoke it, but I'm just pointing it out. Kind of piney.

Laylla: Not your favorite. You've said that before, you don't like that green kind of piney flavor.

Chelle: That piney, yeah. I'm I love the citrus the best, but, you know, weed's weed. I don't give a shit. It could taste like ass, I'll still smoke it. Let's be real. We have. We have.

Laylla: Let's be honest. We have. Absolutely, we have. Well, today, Chelle's bright idea was for us to talk about Route 66 for our episode 66, and we know that there is a ton out there on this road. It was a hugely popular road back in the 1930s and '40s. Let's see, in *The Grapes of Wrath*, John Steinbeck called it the Mother Road, and it was involved in carrying a lot of people during the Depression from Central America all the way to California. Route 66 itself is a roughly 2,400-mile road. It was originally commissioned to be, I believe it was 2,448 miles long, but it fell short of that. A lot of that was due to the fact that it wasn't federally commissioned. Each state was kind of in charge of making its own portion of Route 66 that was envisioned to go from Chicago, Illinois, to Santa Monica, California.

Chelle: But it doesn't go to Chicago all the way, does it?

Laylla: It did at one time. It doesn't now.

Chelle: Oh.

Laylla: Started in 1926, it opened in 1928. It wasn't fully paved until, I believe, like 1939. A lot of it for a long time was gravel road or dirt road. But then when the New Deal came through, the states took all these unemployed young men and put them to work on the roads, and so they paved the whole thing, and it became this gleaming highway diagonally across the entire USA. All sorts of things popped up around it: motels, pulling in with your car to eat, you know, these huge, amazing gas stations and little towns.

Chelle: That's where you That's where you have that vision of like that 1950s diner in the middle of nowhere.

Laylla: Yes, exactly like that. And these roads were made to kind of bypass cities so that they didn't have to stop. They didn't want stop-and-go traffic. They wanted to just be able to get on it and drive. And, you know, because of that, it had this whole mystique. It was the time when when America was trying to drive everywhere. The whole car culture became a big thing. There was even a TV show about Route 66 with these guys in a Chevy Corvette, I believe, that were driving back and forth. I don't know what it had to do I don't know, did they solve mysteries? I don't know if they, like, were criminals. I I don't know. Was it a buddy comedy? Not sure, but they were driving up and down Route 66 in a Chevy Corvette.

Chelle: Oh my god, I think that's where that song's from, is that TV show. "Get your kicks on Route 66."

Laylla: But it just had this idea of freedom, you know, the open road. You could go to California from anywhere, just hop on this road and you could just go. One of the stories that we did not too long ago was about a hotel called the Monte Vista. "Meet me at the Monte V." And that hotel was just off of Route 66, and it's haunted as hell.

Chelle: Well, Flagstaff, Arizona, you know, if you ever watched *The Stand*, jeez, you already got this vision of Flagstaff to begin with.

Laylla: Right. And so there's a lot of this along Route 66. There's tons of hauntings, like Chelle mentioned Zombie Road.

Chelle: Why does it seem like a lot of the stories you do hear about I mean, obviously, I know a little bit about Route 66 and some of the hauntings, but why does it seem like a lot of the issues on Route 66 are more on the California side as opposed to the Illinois side?

Laylla: Population density. The highway portion of it spanned through pretty desolate areas for quite a bit of its of its length. But in California and New Mexico—

Chelle: And Arizona.

Laylla: And Arizona, there was a ton of cities all around, and so the population density was bigger there. There was actually three men, I'm not sure of their name now, but I'll definitely be doing an episode on them, that were all three of them were called the Freeway Killer, because they hunted in that area, Arizona, New Mexico, California, because of the proliferation of highways and freeways and and just roads in that area. They just had an easy population of people to pick from.

Chelle: That's shitty.

Laylla: It is shitty. It is shitty. And actually, the stories that I have today are all three true crime. One of them is unsolved.

Chelle: Oh.

Laylla: And they all took place along Route 66.

Chelle: Did they take place in that area, that Arizona to New Mexico, California portion of it?

Laylla: They all did. Yes. Let's see here. The first one is in Arizona. Let's see, the second one happened in Arizona. And the third one happened in New Mexico. So, Arizona, Arizona, and New Mexico.

Chelle: Note to self: stay off Route 66 in New Mexico and Arizona.

Laylla: And California, because again, the Freeway Killers, I believe a couple of them hunted along the Santa Monica Boulevard, which is or was part of Route 66. So there's quite a few stretches that are pretty You know, back in back in that time, the other thing with Route 66 is you have to remember that it was this shiny Mecca only for half of America, only for part of America, only for really white America. If you were Black and you had to travel down Route 66, it was not recommended, because most of those places were very hostile to Black Americans at that time, including what's called sundown towns. Have you ever heard of these?

Chelle: No.

Laylla: They were basically towns where it was literally unsafe to the point of murder if Black people were in these areas after sundown. And they were called, yeah, and it was such a thing that they actually have a name, sundown towns, and there were quite a few of them along Route 66.

Chelle: Oh.

Laylla: You know, when we talk about this whole mystique, it was really only for certain people, not for everybody.

Chelle: I didn't realize that.

Laylla: I, obviously, for obvious reasons, I did not either. Until, you know, you start looking and you start digging into it, and that's when you you start to find these things. I didn't realize how many murders had occurred along Route 66, and part of it follows the Trail of Tears. I mean, this this whole, I guess it's the country, I don't know, but this whole route has a lot of bloody history to it.

Chelle: Well, nowadays, isn't it really just I mean, not a ton, but isn't it a lot of like abandoned diners and abandoned gas stations and abandoned like, how do I describe it, no-tel motels?

Laylla: Yeah, the heyday of Route 66 really was in the '30s, '40s, and '50s, and it was actually decommissioned, I believe, in the '90s. Let's see, by the mid-'30s, it was being called the Main Street of America. People just loved it, and let's see here, a lot of economies were transformed. Motor inns, there was roadside advertising became big at that time. A lot of rural people from that Dust Bowl area migrated to California during that time. After World War II, there was just a shit ton of traffic. Everybody was driving a car. Nat King Cole wrote, "from Chicago to LA, more than 2,000 miles all the way," about Route 66.

Chelle: You're also talking when cars started becoming popular, you know, in the '30s and stuff, people had that first opportunity to, on their own, travel. You didn't have to go get a train or get on a boat, you know. You had a vehicle that you could go do what you wanted, where you wanted, and just go.

Laylla: Exactly. And it was that popularity, that explosion in popularity, that actually caused the demise of Route 66. I didn't realize it was literally dirt road in some places in the beginning, and even after it was paved, it was only single lane, like two-lane road, one on each side, you know.

Chelle: Right, right.

Laylla: And it was very narrow. It wasn't created with a lot of the modern safety things that we have in place today. And so by the mid-'50s, it had already kind of been replaced by roads that were newer, wider, faster. You ever see the the Disney movie *Cars*?

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: You kind of see some of that happen in the beginning of the movie *Cars*.

Chelle: Yeah, yeah.

Laylla: It got bypassed by safer, faster, straighter roads. And so it got kind of disrepair in some places. Some places it got either changed into the newer road or just bypassed entirely. You can still drive most of historic Route 66. It's not always called Route 66, but you can find maps that will show you where it is now, and you can kind of follow most of it. There are places in California I have driven on parts of historic Route 66.

Chelle: You would think they would like make a thing out of it instead of not promote I don't know. I don't think they promote it.

Laylla: Some do. It's getting even better now. There is a lot more promotion to it now. A lot of states have picked up, because it has always been a state-by-state thing, and a lot of them have picked it up and made it historic. In either, like I said, either the segments that have been repurposed to new roads, they do designate as part of historic 66 as well as the new name. And in some long stretches, they're thinking of making a bike route for Route 66, where you can ride your bike along historic Route 66.

Chelle: Oh.

Laylla: But parts of it do exist, especially in California, New Mexico, and Arizona. I believe it was finally decommissioned June 27th, 1985, and so that was it. It was no more Route 66. But again, in in current times, it is being revived, especially historic sections, and in some places, they're going to construct a very large bike path on Route 66. Let me grab my bowl. Where is my bowl?

Chelle: You know you're high when you lose your bowl.

Laylla: All right, so let's see. We're pretty old, but we are not old enough to have been back when this first crime happened. This is in the 1960s. So in February of 1960, right along Route 66 near Hyde Park, Arizona, a trucker found the body of a young man on the side of the road. His body was propped up against a fence post, and he had dirt and blood all over his face, and he was resting in a pool of blood around his body.

Chelle: Oh.

Laylla: When the police got there, they identified him by his wallet as Jacob Nikolas Krentz, who had gone missing out of Phoenix. His wife had reported him missing after he had been gone for about a week. She says he had left with two other men in her car to go look for work, and he would call her after a week had passed. When he didn't call, she reported him missing. It was shortly after she reported him missing that they found his body. He had been killed by three shots to the head from behind.

Chelle: Oh, shit.

Laylla: So the police put out this information stating that they had found this this murdered man. And just a couple days later, a gentleman walked into the police station and stated that he had been there when Jacob Krentz had been killed, but he hadn't done it. His name was Charles Francis Caldwell. He says he had been driving on Route 66 with Krentz, with Jacob in the passenger seat, and a man named Joe Brown in the back seat with them. And he says that Joe, for some unknown reason, shot Jacob three times in the back of the head, and that Jacob's body had then fallen into Caldwell's lap, and they pulled over and dumped the body. A trial followed. Each man accused the other man, and even though there was a lot of evidence against Joe Brown as the murderer, for some reason, they were both acquitted. Joe Brown was then retried under a different charge. It was a huge mess. The trial was a mess, let me just put it that way. But it ended up being that no one was ever charged for Jacob's murder, even though everyone kind of knew that Joe Brown was the murderer.

Chelle: Sounds like Joe Brown had a friend.

Laylla: That's possible, because there is a lot of rumors that that area is rife with that type of kind of, you know, cronyism. And also, it doesn't help that Krentz, who had been murdered, was also kind of a small-time criminal himself, so the local police didn't really care that he had been killed.

Chelle: That's shitty.

Laylla: Yeah.

Chelle: Just saying.

Laylla: Yeah, I agree. Brown was tried and found guilty of being accessory to a felony, and he served two and a half years in prison for that and was released.

Chelle: What the hell does that charge even mean?

Laylla: I don't even know. Basically, it means, "We know you did it, but we're going to let you go because we don't care." I guess.

Chelle: "We're going to We're going to give you enough punishment to squash the public, but we're not going to really punish you for what we all know you did that we're not going to talk about."

Laylla: Exactly. And as much digging as I did, I was never able to find a motive for the murder. There seemed to be no reason. It's just Joe Brown was drunk and had a gun on him and just kind of decided to do it. No reason. So, that occurred on Route 66. As I pack some more of this lovely, sticky Gush Mints into my beautiful little pentacle bowl, I'm going to tell you a second murder, and this one is even sadder. In this case, a young family had decided to take a trip across Route 66 in June of 1961. And this family, the Welch family, and they lived in Spencer, Oklahoma, and they decided to hop on Route 66 and drive it all the way to California to take a nice vacation with family. James and Utha Marie Welch, they were traveling with their four boys: Jimmy, who was 12, Billy 9, Tommy 8, and little Johnny who was 5. Now they're traveling, and as many families did at that time, they're trying to save money, right?

Chelle: Well, yeah.

Laylla: James Sr. purchased a 1959 Oldsmobile sedan specifically for the trip, one of those big, huge boat cars, right? I mean, you got four boys, you need a nice big car to travel from Oklahoma to California.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: So they were going to try to travel 1400 miles in two to three days. So quite the trip with four little kids. They left June 6th, 1961, and they spent the first night in Amarillo, Texas. They had a little tent for the kids to sleep in. They would pull over to the side of the road, put up the little tent, and the four boys would sleep in the tent, and Mom and Dad would sleep in the car. And worked out great. And then they traveled on to Ash Fork, Arizona, and they were going to stop and get a motel, but Dad decided that was a little too expensive, and they kept traveling. They went about another 13 to 15 miles away. Dad pulled over, was too late, he was tired, and they set up the tent for the boys, tucked the boys in, and then went to sleep in the car. Now the spot where they had pulled over was kind of safe. JD, James Sr., had picked a little spot off the side of the road that had like a rocky outcropping that protected where they were camped from the main road, so they're kind of behind this big rock, right?

Chelle: Mhm.

Laylla: In the morning, the littlest boy, Johnny, woke up and went to the car to get his parents, who wouldn't wake up.

Chelle: Aw.

Laylla: So he went back and woke up his brothers. He said, "There's something on Mommy's face." And the oldest went and found that they were not breathing, covered in blood, and no one was around. It took those four boys hours, hours to get somebody to stop on Route 66 to help them. A man named Don Kramer stopped to check it out and called the cops. The police officer named Darrell Burdno got there around 6:00 a.m. and discovered that Utha and James, JD Welch, had died from gunshot wounds.

Chelle: Oh, shit.

Laylla: They'd both been shot in their sleep. They're pretty sure that Utha had been shot first because JD had defensive wounds, like he had put his arms up to try and stop it. So they're pretty sure he heard the shots that killed his wife and then tried to protect himself but was shot too quickly.

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: They're not sure why the couple was killed because Utha had her purse and it still had everything in it, including quite a bit of money. They had stolen JD's wallet, but that only had about $60 in it. So the kids' aunt came and took the kids to stay with her. And found, the only evidence that was found was some .22 caliber slugs. The only reason the killer was caught was because a young man had gone to a diner right off of Route 66 and wanted some coffee. And this waitress, whose name was Birdie, served him. And it turned out he didn't have any money, not even five cents for the coffee, and she felt bad for him, so she just gave him the coffee for free. Then a few hours later, that same dude who had no money at all came back in and ordered a huge dinner. You know, he got juice, he got a hamburger, he got fries, he got salad, he got everything, and gave them 20 bucks to pay for it.

Chelle: Weird.

Laylla: Yeah, she was a little suspicious, and she told her husband, who just happened to be a police officer, who had just come back from helping to cover the crime scene where JD and Utha had been murdered. He's thinking maybe this guy is the one who killed them and stole their money because it wasn't that far from the diner. So they put out a description of this guy. It turns out after he had killed JD and Utha, he had, or he'd gone to Phoenix and robbed and shot a gas station attendant there. Then he fled to Kansas and was apprehended. So he was tried and found guilty and received the death penalty for a different murder, a liquor store owner, and then he admitted to a cellmate that he was the one that had killed JD and Utha. But he did brag to fellow prisoners about how he didn't kill the children. At least there was that.

Chelle: I mean, you know, I guess if you're that big of a piece of shit and you didn't do all the things you're accused of, you can at least point out the things you didn't do. Bravo.

Laylla: Right. But because he was already on death row, they never tried him for that murder. So that's murder number two. So the third one is a mystery, and I'll try to be short. So the third one is in 1935. Two couples in St. Louis, Missouri, decided to go on a road trip. George and Laura Lorious and their best friends, Albert and Tilly Heberer, got into George's 1929 Nash sedan and decided to take a road trip and sightsee all the way to California.

Chelle: I totally want to do that on Route 66.

Laylla: You and me and our two beloveds hop in a van and taking a road trip.

Chelle: With like a pound of weed.

Laylla: Exactly, lots of lots of weed. I'm pretty sure this couple did not have weed.

Chelle: That was their first mistake.

Laylla: Right? They did have a kick-ass car that was in tip-top shape and had brand new tires and was very well taken care of because George Lorious, I believe, was extremely wealthy, even during the Great Depression. He was like a coal...

Chelle: Probably had those white walls.

Laylla: Yeah, yeah, he had lots and lots of money, including he left with $400 in travelers' checks, which I believe at this time is pretty close to $8,000 to $10,000 in...

Chelle: It's a lot of money to be just carrying.

Laylla: A lot of money. Yeah, eight grand for a vacation. That's the dude you want to go on vacation with. So, nice car, packing a lot of cash, pretty flashy. That was probably their second mistake after not bringing a lot of weed. So they go on this Route 66 trip. So they start in St. Louis, they go to Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, Amarillo, Texas, and they're sending along postcards back to family and friends along the way from each stop, right? Having a great time, just little one-liners. Doing great.

Chelle: So basically what you're telling me is that at this point they're trackable.

Laylla: Very trackable, including George Lorious is tracking like every time... You ever, I'm sure your dad probably did this on road trips, you stop at a gas station, he would write down the odometer reading, how much gas he bought...

Chelle: Oh my god. And how many miles he put on the damn car because, you know, you had to calculate every freaking oil change, right, to the 3,000.

Laylla: That's right. I knew your dad did, and this guy was no exception. He wrote everything down in his little car journal. So that helped track them as well. And I think these postcards were kind of like the 1930s version of texting.

Chelle: Way basically, yeah, yeah, yeah.

Laylla: "Having a great time in Amarillo, wish you were here," drop it in the mailbox, you know. Next city, same thing. "It's pretty cool here, awesome," drop it in the mailbox, you know, just slower.

Chelle: "Having fun without you, ha ha ha."

Laylla: No, that's Facebook. That's what people post on Facebook, right?

Chelle: Postcards are the old version of Facebook because it comes with a picture.

Laylla: Exactly. You just get better pictures. Well, that's, yeah. So the family is heading off, and they're in New Mexico, and they decide to go to Vaughn, New Mexico, which is where one of them had a, an old family friend that lived, and they wanted to go visit. Now Vaughn is only about 100 miles north of, um, the alien place.

Chelle: The alien place.

Laylla: Roswell. Vaughn is only about 100 miles north of Roswell, New Mexico.

Chelle: The alien place.

Laylla: The alien place. Now, now you know it's Mercury retrograde and we're fucked up because we can't remember that alien place. So they head to Vaughn on the 21st, and they check into a hotel. They have breakfast the next morning and check out, and that's pretty much the last time anyone ever remembers seeing them.

Chelle: Oh my god, were they abducted by aliens?

Laylla: Maybe. That was my first thought.

Chelle: Because they're near that weird alien place.

Laylla: They were reported missing because they didn't check in when they were supposed to. Uh, they discovered that the car was involved in an accident on May 23rd near Socorro, New Mexico. And it was described as a young man with dark-colored hair. Now both of these couples were in their, uh, late 40s, early 50s, so definitely not a young man.

Chelle: Not a young man.

Laylla: Right, with tattoos...

Chelle: And not one person because there was four of them.

Laylla: Exactly. So this young man took George Lorious's car to a gas station and a repair shop and had a tire changed and the gas filled up, and he paid using these travelers' checks that he signed.

Chelle: Again trackable.

Laylla: Again very trackable. Then they found the vehicle abandoned on the 26th with the keys in the car, but no luggage and no sign of either couple. Now the FBI gets involved, and they're searching everywhere for these people. They're searching all along Route 66. The next stop, they had written friends and family that they were going to go to, quote, the Boulder Dam, which is what they were calling the Hoover Dam, which had just opened up. So they knew where they were kind of headed, but they'd never made it there. So they're searching all along this route, all along where the car is found, and then they find some luggage that belonged to one of the women burning in Albuquerque, New Mexico.

Chelle: Oh.

Laylla: They then find more luggage belonging to Tilly in El Paso a few days after that.

Chelle: And how far away are those places? Like a couple hundred miles apart from each other? Albuquerque and El Paso? So somebody was traveling with the luggage, obviously.

Laylla: Right, and dropped it off in multiple different places. But their bodies have never been found, and they've never identified the person that they saw in the car. Although they did discover that he spent most of that money, the travelers' checks you said that were trackable, they did find forged travelers' checks that had belonged to George Lorious all over Albuquerque and the Vaughn area.

Chelle: But never were able to trace the person.

Laylla: Never.

Chelle: Oh, fucked up.

Laylla: There are a few theories, none of which involve aliens, sadly.

Chelle: Damn, I love a good alien story.

Laylla: In 1963, a woman who said that she was a waitress in Vaughn, New Mexico, said that she was there in a diner when the couple was brought down to the basement and murdered.

Chelle: Oh.

Laylla: And then concrete was poured over the bodies.

Chelle: Shit, that's all Al Capone and shit.

Laylla: Some of the remaining family wanted to search for it, but the, the diner itself no longer exists, and there's probably a lot of concrete slabs in the area. It would take a while to find them. I mean, I'd look, but...

Chelle: Although, I will, I will say this, it is now the year 2023. If there's any folks that really are that interested, I believe there are those sonar things where they can actually look through the concrete and see if there's a body in it. Just saying. Don't know the cost, but the technology exists.

Laylla: But they have looked for them, like I said, the FBI had gotten involved. At one point, they said that the case file on this missing couple in paper was six feet tall.

Chelle: Holy shit.

Laylla: For the FBI.

Chelle: Holy shit.

Laylla: They did put the effort in, is basically what you're saying. Yes, they definitely did. There's another theory that on along that highway, like I said, there's a couple different highway killers, freeway killers that operated around that time and in that area, one of which was a man named Chester Comer, who was a murderer that had been released from prison in Texas. And he liked to kill multiple people at a time. He, he kind of got off on the thrill of murdering more than one person at once. And he was kind of in that area at the time that these two couples went missing. Now he had gotten shot in a battle with some sheriffs from Oklahoma, I guess, and went to the hospital with all these wounds, and on his deathbed, he was supposedly talking about four people, four bodies, and some trees. So some people think maybe he was confessing to the murder of, of these two couples. So that's another theory.

Chelle: No, it's funny that you kind of say all that because I think there is definitely, there's something about murder and Route 66.

Laylla: Yeah. They were murdered possibly for carrying roughly $8,000 on them. So it's possible they were murdered for the nice car and the cash.

Chelle: And, and, and maybe jewelry and, you know...

Laylla: And their bodies could have been under the slab. Now there's one little piece of paranormal information. This confession from the waitress didn't come until the early '60s, but in 1935, Laura's sister woke up from a dream, and she said that Laura appeared to her and said that she had been murdered and was buried beneath flooring where it would be very difficult to find her.

Chelle: Which would go along with the cement thing.

Laylla: She had this dream on the 22nd, which was a few days before people were even aware that the couple was missing, but it was actually one day after the last time they were seen alive.

Chelle: So probably it was happen, she was having the dream at the time of the murder or shortly after the murder.

Laylla: So she could have had this dream like the day after the murder, and then it wasn't until the '60s, so that wasn't common knowledge, and in the early '60s, this waitress sent that letter saying that she had witnessed their murder and that they were buried in concrete. So, I don't know. There's a lot of different things, but like you said, Route 66 has a lot of mysteries along it, partly because it, it winds through so many old places and, you know, along all these different areas, and, and also partly because some stretches of it are pretty desolate, and it's pretty easy to hide out there.

Chelle: Sometimes I love being a Gemini because even in the most calm and wonderful, if not crazy and frantic situations, Geminis can always switch gears.

Laylla: True, good point. You've always been good at that.

Chelle: I actually do have a Route 66 story.

Laylla: Way, what?

Chelle: I do, I do.

Laylla: Nice.

Chelle: You know how I get, so it is a surprise. I will admit I might not have had one when we started, but...

Laylla: What did you find?

Chelle: So I got on this Zombie Road thing. Like why, I need to know why are you calling part of Route 66 the Zombie Road. I need to know this. There is a lot of murder and mayhem along, along Route 66 because, you know, this stretch, this, this couple of stories goes to a part of Wildwood, Missouri, which is a little outside of St. Louis. So this is like a whole totally different part of the road, but kind of that same murder and mayhem.

Laylla: Awesome, give it to me. What happened?

Chelle: First I got to know, could this all be because, not that my spiritual beliefs align with the whole 666 concept, but I'm just wondering. It is Route 66, there are some people that say that 666 is potentially some sort of evil doing.

Laylla: Yeah.

Chelle: Well, we'll talk about your thoughts on that in a minute. The Zombie Road thing, like I said, there's this stretch. Now, this is what got me. You are not allowed to be on this after dark.

Laylla: What?

Chelle: And it's like heavily, heavily patrolled, and you can get up to a $1,000 fine for being on it after dark.

Laylla: No way.

Chelle: That leads me to believe that there's something going on. What the hell does the local town sheriff in freaking Missouri give two rats' asses about this road at 2:00 a.m. unless there's something going on? So that's kind of what drew me in to, to, to check this out. You know, very interesting. So they call this actually the, one of the most haunted stretches of road in the world.

Laylla: No shit.

Chelle: Not just the state of Missouri, not just America, the world. So you're already making, you're making a bold claim right out of the gate here, people.

Laylla: Yeah, it's the most haunted stretch of road. I love it. I love it. In the world, in the world. Okay, that's great.

Chelle: You're making a bold statement, people. And here's the funny thing. You know where I found that quote?

Laylla: Where?

Chelle: On a website called dangerousroads.org. That right there should start freaking you out.

Laylla: Yeah, sounds like they know dangerous roads.

Chelle: First of all, who knew there was a website about dangerous roads? Um, second of all, but yeah, so dangerousroads.org does list this as one of the most haunted roads in the entire world, all on Earth, which already I'm half laughing and you've totally piqued my interest. What can I say? It's like world's most famous road, Route 66. Yeah, okay, everybody says that. I don't know what to tell you. So what happened was this is in like the eastern part of Missouri, and it's also known as Lawler Ford Road. And this particular stretch is about 3.6 miles. You know how you said there are parts of it that are desolate and kind of going through these nowhere places? That's exactly what this is. This goes through a valley of the Forest Oak Land Hills, kind of near the, uh, Meramec River.

Laylla: Okay.

Chelle: So this part of the road was built in the 1860s, and it provided access from the river to nearby railroad tracks. It kind of became a part of Route 66 after its original intention was basically to connect a waterway to a railway.

Laylla: Yeah, a lot of Route 66 was like that. They, they utilized existing roads and kind of repurposed them to be part of 66, and then a lot of that was later repurposed to be other roads.

Chelle: To the point where nowadays, this is actually, it's not like a car road. This stretch, this, this, whatever I said it was, like 3.6-mile stretch, this is actually present day more of a, like a pedestrian bicycle path.

Laylla: Okay, like what they're thinking of doing of other parts of 66 and making it more of a bike path.

Chelle: Yeah, this already is. But this thing, like, they got this shit on lockdown. It opens one half hour before sunrise and closes one half hour after sunset. They know it's really haunted, and they don't give two shits. Basically, they put all over everywhere that nighttime visitors are going to find police, and they will be getting tickets.

Laylla: Wow. So they're serious about this nobody after dark thing.

Chelle: Like they're hardcore. This is where I can potentially see why. I think it might be considered, I don't know what they call it, like a heritage site or something. It is the site of one of the largest, and, you know, we are, we are very much trying to be respectful here, one of the largest Native American burial mounds in the country.

Laylla: Aha. Yeah, so they definitely want to keep people away from historical sites when they can't be supervised.

Chelle: So it kind of, what you'd think of it, you know, like a park, you know, the park, it's open from sunrise to sunset, or like some cemeteries, they try to have sunrise to sunset.

Laylla: So they have a logical reason for saying no visitors after dark, not just because there's ghosties.

Chelle: As you can imagine, one of the country's largest Native American burial mounds. All right, so we're talking spectral American Indians here. Because of the area, like I said, you're talking like right outside of St. Louis, Missouri, so you also have Confederate Civil War Confederate activity in there.

Laylla: Yeah.

Chelle: And there are reports of, they call it packs of child ghosts.

Laylla: Wait a minute. Roaming packs of child ghosts? Where do they come from?

Chelle: All I can think of is like Peter Pan or something. Also, tortured souls of working men killed in industrial accidents um in the 1800s at that point. It's it's got some activity.

Laylla: I'm still stuck on roaming packs of child ghosts.

Chelle: I was stuck on the fact that they referred to it as packs of child ghosts. Like, that's what they call it.

Laylla: Just that they exist. What's going on? That's kind of horrific. I mean, come on. What would create a pack of children ghosts?

Chelle: Here Here was another phrase that really kind of stuck out to me. Um it has a reputation for being a a place where there's shadowy figures and other non-human entities. I love me a good non-human entity.

Laylla: Oh, wow. Yeah. I'm hoping that means like orbs and plasma and shadow people.

Chelle: I know, right? But, no, they don't call it an orb. They Oh, I'll I'll have to find what they called it, but they called it something, but there's basically like a green like a green orb.

Laylla: Like phantasm or plasma or something?

Chelle: Oh, plasma, I think they called it.

Laylla: Spectral evidence or something? I don't know what they call it.

Chelle: It's basically the picture I saw, it looked like an orb but was bright green.

Laylla: Ooh, fun. I'm down.

Chelle: I don't know what the green color signifies. I'm not sure. But anyhow, not to get off track. So this So So a lot has happened on this road going back, you know, again, all the way to to it being a Native American sacred spot.

Laylla: Where do the zombies come in?

Chelle: Okay. It kind of I could see where they would think zombies back in their day. So, as I had said, it connected a area connected like the river area to the railroad track area. So, there was a person, I don't know his name, I could find it, but I don't know at the moment. So, this guy gets hit by a train and he was mangled pretty bad.

Laylla: Mmh.

Chelle: So, this was back in the '50s, actually. So, back in the '50s, this guy was near the tracks, got hit by the train. I'm not sure if he was uh one of the people working on the road, working on the railroad. No idea where he came from. He got mangled so bad that like people back then, it was described of they couldn't look at him.

Laylla: Aw, that sounds awful.

Chelle: It took him something ridiculous like 40 minutes to die.

Laylla: Oh. Oh, shit. I thought you were going to say he lived, but people couldn't look at his scarred face. Oh, that's terrible.

Chelle: No, like like his skin's ripped off and eye hanging out of the socket.

Laylla: Oh.

Chelle: But like he lived.

Laylla: Oh, that's awful.

Chelle: But like lived for like 40 minutes before he died.

Laylla: That's even awfuller.

Chelle: Now, here's the bitch.

Laylla: It gets worse?

Chelle: He happened to be a killer. So,

Laylla: Oh, now I feel bad that I felt so bad for him.

Chelle: after being hit and killed by the train,

Laylla: That's still a terrible way to die. Killer or no killer, that's pretty horrific.

Chelle: and for it not to be instant, 40 minutes is a long time.

Laylla: Yeah. I mean, on the one hand, ew, and on the other hand, eh.

Chelle: He is known to roam the area to this day. And you know the drill with the ghosties, they like to kill young lovers.

Laylla: Yeah.

Chelle: And anyone parked along the side of the road. But there's

Laylla: Wait, wait. He doesn't just haunt them, he kills them?

Chelle: Oh, yeah. This guy tries to kill you in real life.

Laylla: He's a killer ghost?

Chelle: They call him the zombie killer.

Laylla: Oh, that's awful. You first you take a murderer, bad enough, and then you take a murderer and you kill him in a horrific, prolonged, terrible accident. That's r- I guess I'm not surprised he's a killer ghost because that's that's just terrible. I mean, yeah. So, he's killed people in their car?

Chelle: They literally say that he lurks in the woods.

Laylla: Ew. That's creepy. Well, that's a good enough reason not to go there after dark. That's fine. That's okay. I'm good with that. There's rules for a reason, Chelle.

Chelle: Yeah, but I'm confused on why the police care. The police only care if there's something to keep under wraps. Come on now, let's be real.

Laylla: Well, obviously, they cannot pin a murder on a ghost. So, they don't want you to get murdered there because then there would be all these unsolved murders, and they can't just get on national television and say, "Oh, the ghost guy did it," because then we'd all go, "Oh, do your jobs," and then everyone would be mad.

Chelle: Here's the thing, if they actually got on TV and said the ghost did it, that might be the first time I actually believe them.

Laylla: It would not be the first time "ghost did it" is in a police report, however. So, we've talked about a few of those on this show before.

Chelle: Obviously, we know how this all came about, so it's not like I was able to put hours and hours of time into this. So, I don't know where the the packs of children come from.

Laylla: Chelle takes Mercury retrograde way too fucking seriously and says, "I'm going to do my research at the literal last second." Fuck you, Mercury, see if you can screw with that. I can do this.

Chelle: Here, Mercury, hold my beer.

Laylla: Hold my bong.

Chelle: Hold my bong. Um but I just don't understand where the packs of kids came from. And I ended up seeing that on two different websites um in those exact words, "packs of children."

Laylla: You're going to have to revisit this. That's your punishment for doing your homework late is you're going to have to find out.

Chelle: Who are the packs of children?

Laylla: Yes. Why are they there? I need to know now.

Chelle: Are my children a part of this pack of children? What's going on?

Laylla: If I go there at night, are my children going to then be part of this wild hunt? I mean, come on. We need to know the rules here.

Chelle: I do really have a legitimate question on, you know, in all seriousness, what are the police trying to hide? Because here we are, you know, we know parks are sunrise to sunset, cemeteries are sunrise to sunset, but you don't see that shit being patrolled. You know, like they're not dishing out fines if you're walking through the cemetery at night.

Laylla: You know, that's actually a good point.

Chelle: You know what I'm saying? Like, why? Why are they I feel like this is like one of those small Midwestern cover-ups. Why do they care that Why do the police care that much?

Laylla: You know, you're right. When I first thought about it, I was like, "Well, you know, it's a historic site. Of course, they're going to police it." But, you know, you're right. That's an over-policing. I've been to a lot of national parks. How many parks do you know that say sunrise to sunset, prohibited entrance, and who is watching? Nobody.

Chelle: Yeah, a lot of them say that, but

Laylla: Why are they watching this place?

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: I've been in a lot of them after sunset. Okay, not really. In theory, I've been in a lot of them after sunset and never seen anyone. So, why does this one have an actual patrol?

Chelle: Heavy patrol. Yes. So, I am intrigued. So, if anybody lives in Missouri, do we know anybody in Missouri? Do we got No one lives in Missouri. Actually, when I was traveling through Missouri on one of my great cross-country road trips back in the day, when we went through, I met a young, free-spirited person at some campsite we were at, and he said that the state was actually called Misery and everyone who lived there wanted to get out.

Chelle: Know why? That's because they have the Zombie Road.

Laylla: That's probably why. That's probably why. So, yeah, it's the most haunted road in the world. The world, Laylla.

Chelle: I believe it. I believe it. Haunting roaming packs of children, I I need to know more. I need to know more.

Laylla: So So, I need to expand on this story and find out who these packs of children are. But I think, you know, for coming in blind, I didn't do too bad.

Chelle: That's a pretty fun story, Chelle. And you know, with orbs and haunted hitchhikers, murdery Jack the Ripper-y type ghosts, and roaming packs of children ghosts, I'm super intrigued. I'm intrigued enough that we need to put that whole section of 66 on our haunted USA road trip.

Laylla: The only thing this thing is missing is a cryptid and an alien sighting, legit.

Chelle: I'm pretty sure it's there, and I'm fairly certain aliens were involved in the disappearance of the two couples in my story. Pretty sure. They were so close, so close to Roswell. It's mysterious.

Laylla: I honestly think that maybe some of the big issues with the Zombie Road portion of Route 66, you got some serious shit when you got one of the country's largest Native American burial grounds. Like, you're talking some shit there, like some like some heavy-duty, next-level shit.

Chelle: Yeah, anytime you get like a large burial ground, and you said there was also some industrial accidents where people died, and war sites there, and Civil War um Civil War Confederate stuff going on.

Laylla: Yeah, so that that's a confluence of things. Plus, there's a river right near there, right?

Chelle: I I was going to say, I'd be very interested to know what type of rock and stone is underneath and knowing that there's water nearby.

Laylla: Yeah. I mean, that's that's a lot of things to happen in a site. You're going to get orbs, you're going to get that energy. You know, just look at like Gettysburg and some of these other sites that are well-known, have big cemeteries and that type of thing. Makes for very powerful psychic activity or some type of energy. For whatever reason, these places cling to that energy.

Chelle: But it sounds like on this Zombie this Zombie Road portion of it, it's it's really kind of more of the negative persuasion.

Laylla: Well, the entire Route 66, the historic Route 66 from Chicago to Santa Monica, California, is filled with mystery and intrigue, cool little towns and beautiful scenery and amazing things, and some shitty, racist towns, too. So, I mean, you get the whole American experience, I think, from start to finish. Certainly, something I would love to try and piece together and do as part of our haunted American road trip.

Chelle: I feel like we'd have to I feel like you have to do Route 66 in a convertible, though. I feel like that's a requirement.

Laylla: I'm pretty sure it's a law. Yeah.

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: So, we'll just make sure our RV has a big convertible top when we go through. Right? But, yeah, if anybody knows any more information about this Zombie Road portion of Route 66, I I need to explore this further. And, you know, my bad on that. I'm interested. If you know anything, let us know.

Chelle: Email us at thestonedwitcheshour@gmail.com and tell us what you know about Zombie Road. I got to know, why are the cops there? What is going on that the freaking police are hiding? Right? And have you ever traveled on Route 66? Have you ever seen a ghost? Have you ever picked up a ghostly hitchhiker? Have you seen the Lady in White? Have you seen that zombie guy? Tell us. Where are the orbs? Tell us, people. Where are the orbs at? And I have to say thank you so much for all your submissions of ghost stories. I'm pretty sure we have the ones we're going to do for next episode. But keep sending them in if you have them, and thank you everyone who has sent them in. I will let everyone know which ones we have picked here soon. So, thank you, thank you for your submissions, and keep sending them in. Uh just write them "Attention: Your Stories" to thestonedwitcheshour@gmail.com. And, you know what? Maybe I'll be able to get my shit together and remember what we're doing next episode. That'd be helpful.

Laylla: You should be able to just read stories and react, Chelle. I got you.

Chelle: Okay. Okay. That I can That's on my level at the moment.

Laylla: Will Mercury be out of retrograde by then? Like, when does when does this end?

Chelle: Um I feel like it's like May 14th, if I'm not mistaken. So, we got a minute.

Laylla: You're exactly right. It does end Sunday, May 14th.

Chelle: Not soon enough. So, for all of you, I hope your Mercury retrograde goes a little easier than it is on Chelle and myself. And uh we will see you next week on Wednesday at 4:20 AM for episode 67 of The Stoned Witches Hour.

Laylla: Where we're going to smoke our faces off and tell more scary, true crime, ghosty shit.

Chelle: Absolutely. Hopefully, a whole bunch of your amazing, true ghosty stories.

Laylla: Oh, I'm so excited. I love these episodes so much. I love these episodes so much, I can't wait.

Chelle: Me too. They are a lot of fun. So, thank you, thank you. Keep them coming, and we will see you next week. Stay high, stay happy.
