Speaker 1: It's witchcraft. Hey, it's 4:20 a.m. Hi, and welcome to episode 67 of The Stoner Witch is Hour. On this podcast, two best friends from way back get together to tell each other the creepiest true paranormal tales they can find from across the USA, all while smoking the stickiest, stonist, sweetest cannabis they can find. Getting higher than the Black Hills and the Badlands of South Dakota. I'm Laylla.

Chelle: And smoking the dankity dank up in New England. I'm Shell. Is dankity dank a word or did I just make that up?

Speaker 1: I don't know. I'm pretty sure you just made that up. Pretty sure. That's a shellism for sure.

Chelle: That is. That is. But speaking of dankity dank, I have this really good stuff and I don't know what it's called and I don't know the THC, but I love it. Does that count for anything?

Speaker 1: Ooh, that does count. So you're smoking some really good no name stuff today.

Chelle: We're going to call We're going to call this mystery weed. All you need to know is that you put it in your pipe and smoke it. That's all you need to know. I'm taking it back to like the 1990s where you just buy a bag and what you get is what you get and you don't bitch and you don't complain and you just smoke that shit and you be happy.

Speaker 1: Well, you know, if I could pay the prices I was paying in the '90s for some of that, then I would do it. So you got a bag of no name weed, but it's Is it good? I mean

Chelle: Oh yeah. Oh yeah.

Speaker 1: Was it any cheaper than your normal stuff?

Chelle: Um the same as what I've been getting lately. You know what though? I'm having a problem with this particular stuff. Once you grind it, it's like poof, dry.

Speaker 1: I've seen that a lot, a lot lately. I've actually seen on some of the different boards that I'm on people posting pictures of these dry little compact hard nugs next to their big, large, not so compact homegrown nugs and wondering what's going on here. What is going on here?

Chelle: What is going on here? Miss Miss Horticulturist, what's going on here? Because it seems like it gets really dry, but in the same respect, it is sticky as a mofo. I had ground some up and put it in like this tiny little baggie. It all like conformed into like one big chunk and I felt like I was breaking pieces off of it. Like very sticky, yet very dry. Weird combo, I know. I can't explain it.

Speaker 1: Yeah, we've talked before about two of of the things I suspect are going on. One of them is a growth hormone that can be used sometimes and it does tend to make the buds a lot denser and a lot harder. And the other thing I think is more going on is I'm pretty sure it's stale weed from other states.

Chelle: Damn it. Yeah. No wonder it was cheap.

Speaker 1: More than like. More than like. Especially if it 's really dense and really dry, but sticky even though it's dry, it was probably once fantastic pot and now it's just stale.

Chelle: Still a good smoke.

Speaker 1: Yeah, regulations will help. But I am currently smoking

Chelle: Let me guess, gelato, something or other.

Speaker 1: Yes, gellanade too.

Chelle: Ooh, from your hot box.

Speaker 1: From the hot box. Yes. Yes, it is. And I'm also smoking this blue zushi.

Chelle: Blue zushi? What's that?

Speaker 1: I don't know.

Chelle: What's the smell like? Fruity?

Speaker 1: Um yeah, I don't know what that smell is. It's not the best smell. It's a little bit like gasoline and it's a little bit like It's gassy. It's a little fruity, but maybe that fruit was like a little off. I 'm not sure. It's It's definitely good. It leans towards gassy and fruity, but there's a hint of something, maybe rotten fruit. I'm not sure how to describe it. But delicious flavor when smoked, very fruity. I really like it. It's very stony.

Chelle: Do those hormones like add any taste or flavor?

Speaker 1: They do not.

Chelle: Okay. Okay.

Speaker 1: They can make it harsher. If you find yourself coughing more often than you think you should, that might be one sign. There's a couple different ways you can tell, but the the denseness is one way. It's They're usually super dense. It'll be harsher, make you cough a little bit more. And I can't remember what else.

Chelle: That's cuz you smoked too much weed.

Speaker 1: That's cuz I smoked too much weed.

Chelle: You smoked too much gelatos and and jack herer.

Speaker 1: Gellanade too, I know has a decent THC. But let's see what blue zushi is cuz I've never heard of that. I got it because I've never heard of it before.

Chelle: I do that sometimes too. I'll just buy something just because I'm like, hey, I never heard of that and that sounds neat.

Speaker 1: According to Leafly, it's a hybrid made by crossing Skittles and Kushmints.

Chelle: See now I've had a lot of the GMO Skittles and that's been pretty good, but I've never had Skittles and Kushmints mixed. But I've also had I've had Kushmints and that's been really good. My guess is it's probably going to be pretty good.

Speaker 1: Yeah, it's definitely good and I would say it has this slightly sweet gasoline, but it tastes very sweet and very fruity. I do like the taste of the blue Skittles. It's very good.

Chelle: Neither of us are are smoking anything rock star fabulous tonight. So I want to just kind of shift a little gears here quick and I want to do a grow update with you. So we haven't checked in on your growing statuses lately. Where are you at? What's growing? What you got? What what what's in what phase?

Speaker 1: I have a lot of different cultivars going on right now. I have about five different cultivars and I have some auto flowers which are Gorilla Glue number four.

Chelle: You know I love Gorilla Glue. That's really a good one. It really is.

Speaker 1: Those are all auto flowers and I am going to start do some of those outdoors and some of those indoors. And then the rest are all different types of gelato and blueberry strains. And those are all photo period plants. I've got a bunch of clones and and those going. I have several going to two different family members to be outdoor plants. However, my garden is not as big. I had planned on doing many, many, many more plants, but due to all the different shit that's been happening, mercury retrograde, some deaths in the family unfortunately, um my my plans have not reached the dreams that I wanted them to be. So But it's going good. It's going pretty good.

Chelle: Excellent. I can't wait. And let's just point out all hail mercury going direct.

Speaker 1: Thank all the gods. I am so glad, so glad. It could not have happened soon enough.

Chelle: Was this a bad one or was it just me?

Speaker 1: It was a really, really bad one and I am surprised that we made it through. Both of us had our share of bullshit.

Chelle: Right?

Speaker 1: So it's going pretty good. It 's not anywhere near as big as I wanted it to be or in as good a shape as I wanted it to be, to be honest. Having a grow takes a lot of work and a lot of time and especially now that I'm doing photo period again and taking clones, that's just exponentially more work. And to be honest, I 'm not getting as much help as I kind of need.

Chelle: And there's only 24 hours in a day.

Speaker 1: Seriously, I've definitely bit off more than I can chew and I lost a couple plants because I'm not paying attention. I'm a little scattered and I'm stretched a little too thin right now. So the garden's going okay. But this whole going outside and kind of expanding to help some of the family, I went a little too fast too soon and then I I hit too many roadblocks. You know, life and mercury retrograde happen.

Chelle: Well, and also where you're currently located isn't the best weather friendly locale either.

Speaker 1: No, it is not. I have not been growing enough to cover how much we smoke and I 'm starting to get a little upset with how much we're spending on weed. So I 'm hoping that I can kind of

Chelle: Welcome to what the rest of us in the world are dealing with here.

Speaker 1: Right? Like if you want to smoke good stuff, that shit's pricey. That's pricey. And and smoking the 100 100 to $150 ounces is great, but you know

Chelle: Yeah.

Speaker 1: It's going to be dry or it's not going to be good. It's not going to have the punch that other weed is going to have. So I miss my homegrown top shelf really good shit. And so it it's hard. It's hard being pulled in a lot of different directions.

Chelle: Go back to basics, two buckets at a time.

Speaker 1: That's not going to cover it, Shell. It's six plants at a time. You know, I'm I'm pushing that limit and I need those six plants to be monsters really. So I want to read an email that we got because I think this is very funny.

Chelle: I love listener emails. These things are always so great.

Speaker 1: This one's really funny too. Okay. So this one comes from Karen and Karen says, I am St. Louis born, currently live in Arkansas, and I recently got caught up on a bunch of your episodes and wanted to chime in on something. Regarding the Zombie Road in Wildwood, I grew up 30 minutes from there and had never heard of anything about it. Wildwood is a very ritzy white suburb of St. Louis. So the next time I visit, I anticipate being apprehended by the cops. Secondly, in Arkansas at least, a wompus cat is a slang term for an unwashed lady flower.

Chelle: Wait a minute. Uh-oh. Oh. Oh, I got you. Okay. Okay.

Speaker 1: She says you're welcome.

Chelle: Appreciate.

Speaker 1: That is hilarious.

Chelle: Now I'm going to I'm going to say that to somebody. You know I 'm going to. And I 'm going to say it in the context of this email.

Speaker 1: That's Shell's new insult. Be like, oh you wompus cat.

Chelle: You damn wompus cat.

Speaker 1: I'm going to go re-listen to that episode with that in mind and I'm going to lose my shit every time we say wompus cat. I know it. So yeah, after this I'm going to take my high ass over and listen to that episode. She said, third, you've probably been told this already, but crystal ball bongs are available at Cannastyle. They have a whole witchy canna collection and it is badass. We need that bong. We jump on weed too.

Chelle: I need that. I I I actually texted that again to you the other day and I'm like, I need this. I need that crystal ball bong.

Speaker 1: I want that crystal ball bong too. It would be amazing.

Chelle: I just got to figure out where does the water go.

Speaker 1: Right? How do you get How do you fill it? And she says, finally and most importantly, I've got a topic for you to cover. I thought about sending in my personal experience, but so many people have had experiences here and the history is so creepy and absurd you might think about featuring it. She says that topic is the Crescent Hotel in Eureka Springs, Arkansas. Although I did this actually. The Crescent Hotel episode is episode 22. It's called Melon Head Cryptids and the Snake Oil Salesman's Serial Killer.

Chelle: Wow, episode 22. I feel like that was a that was in years ago.

Speaker 1: Episode 22, a very long time ago. Yeah, it was about that guy, that con man who pretended to be a doctor and was saying he could cure people of cancer and he was really like murdering them by giving them his weird concoction. She says, in fact, a few years ago the current owners were trying to pour a new parking lot or something and accidentally dug up a bunch of preserved human remains. And the University of Arkansas Archaeology Department took over the dig which is pretty cool. She said it was also a school for young ladies at some point and is currently a hotel you can stay at. And she said it has a crescent moon motif which is witchy and pretty and they have the best Sunday brunch in the Ozarks, I promise. It's been featured in a bunch of TV shows and it is still claiming souls. She says some dude fell off a balcony to his death just a few years ago. Unfortunately, with our current politics, Arkansas isn't a great place to be, but Eureka Springs is the most unique place I've ever been and the Crescent is its jewel. Y'all should visit. Anyway, I love the show. Keep doing what you're doing. Thank you so much for emailing us, Karen. I hope you get to check out our episode on the Crescent Hotel. It was definitely a creepy, creepy place.

Chelle: And I'd also just like to point out I just think it's funny how it worked out. So if you want to go back to episode 54 which is titled Laylla's Birthday Wompus Cat.

Speaker 1: Oh no. Why would I get that for my birthday? That's terrible.

Chelle: You go back on Spotify, episode 54, Laylla's Birthday Wompus Cat.

Speaker 1: I'm going to be changing that title ASAP.

Chelle: You can listen about Laylla's Wompus Cat.

Speaker 1: It's not my wompus cat, I swear.

Chelle: Karen, I want you to know that I am going to take a brave with me, okay?

Speaker 1: I'm never going to live this down.

Chelle: And and and now that I've actually put it out there and I've talked about it enough that she can't just cut all of this out, Laylla's Birthday Episode, Laylla's Birthday Wompus Cat, Episode 54. Check it out.

Speaker 1: Um public announcement, Laylla will be changing the title of that episode ASAP.

Chelle: Thanks, Karen.

Speaker 1: Thanks, Karen. But Laylla will also be getting high as fuck and listening to that episode and laughing my ass off the entire time.

Chelle: I just think it's so ironic that it was Oh Karen, you're going to make me pee myself. Come on.

Speaker 1: Thank you for that laugh at my expense unfortunately. So Chelle,

Chelle: Yeah.

Speaker 1: the fun does not stop there. It's not quite as good as Laylla's birthday unwashed lady flower.

Chelle: Oh lord. Wompus cat.

Speaker 1: But it's close. This one comes from Brittany and Brittany says, hello ladies, my name is Brittany. I'm from Oklahoma where medical is legal.

Chelle: God bless you, Brittany.

Speaker 1: We're with you, Bret. She says, tonight I am smoking leftover birthday cake from my birthday. Happy birthday, Brittany.

Chelle: Ooh, happy birthday.

Speaker 1: I hope you didn't get a wompus cat. She says, I'd like to say I love the show. I've spent hours at work binge listening to pass the day. Fuck yeah.

Chelle: Don't let your boss hear it.

Speaker 1: Right? I don't know if it's work appropriate, especially not this episode.

Chelle: Actually, it makes me want to look up more wompus cat info.

Speaker 1: I am literally, when we are done here, going to finish smoking this bag and I 'm going to go listen to that episode. It's going to be hilarious. All right, so I'm sorry, Brittany. Happy birthday. Then Shell she's got a message for you.

Chelle: Uh-oh.

Speaker 1: Chelle, I don't know if you've ever heard of a cryptid called The Kappa. It is Japanese folklore. I highly recommend it for the show. It is hilarious and interesting to say the least. The Kappa is interested in the human shiri kodama which is said to hold the soul. Also, there is a ranch in Utah called Skinwalker Ranch which we've heard of. We're totally going to cover that, Brittany. Absolutely. She says the History Channel is doing a show on it. It has everything. UFOs, cryptids, you name it. I'm obsessed. I would love to hear y'all's opinions of Skinwalker Ranch. Have a wonderful evening, Brittany. Then, this is the funny part. She says PS. And here's where I have a little bit of a problem, Brittany. I have to say we do not have an accent. I've been told time and time again

Chelle: Brittany has the accent. We don't.

Speaker 1: Right? See, I love Shell s on my side. She doesn't even know what Brittany saying and we're we're in this together. I love it.

Chelle: Right?

Speaker 1: Besties, man. Besties. So but Brittany says PS, I've never heard anyone pronounce elementary, documentary, or Oregon the way y'all do gets me every time.

Chelle: You know, that's so funny. Brittany, you're not the only one. I'm not saying I agree with you, but you're not the only one because at work, in in my mundane work day-to-day life pay the bills job, they pick on me because I say elementary. I'm like, that's how it's spelled. How else do you say it? It's it's elementary. I don't know what what

Speaker 1: Wait a minute. No, you've heard this before.

Chelle: There is a specific person at work. I will not say her name, but she giggles at me all the time cuz I say elementary. I don't know. How you say it, right? That's how you say it, right?

Speaker 1: I think so. I thought so.

Chelle: All right, Brittany. You're going to Brittany's going to have to send us a voice message because I need to know how It's elementary. What am I doing wrong here?

Speaker 1: I have been told my whole life I have no accent, zero accent. I have like the the TV accent I guess, which is to say no accent.

Chelle: Right?

Speaker 1: Typical American boring. But Brittany says I say elementary, documentary, and Oregon wrong. So I'm so curious. I love it. Do we have an accent that we're trying to

Chelle: How the hell do you say Oregon wrong?

Speaker 1: I don't know.

Chelle: You know what I think it is? You know what I think it is? You know how there's people who like Remember Sherlock Holmes, elementary, my dear Watson. They say elementary, my dear Watson. And we say elementary.

Speaker 1: Oh, elementary?

Chelle: Elementary. I think it's elementary. It's It's so British to me.

Speaker 1: Elementary. I feel like I have to raise my pinky. Elementary.

Chelle: Yeah.

Speaker 1: Is that how I don't know. So Brittany, please send us a little voice recording of how we're supposed to say elementary, documentary in Oregon.

Chelle: I'm confused. But you know what? I'm used to it. Try being a New Yorker moving to to Salem, Massachusetts. Everybody thinks I have the accent. I'm like, I do not. Y'all have the accent.

Speaker 1: I love hearing your love talk because of the the Boston, Massachusetts accent is phenomenal.

Chelle: It it's it's kind of funny. I got to admit. But yeah, I I definitely am the minority accent wise in in my current location in Massachusetts, but I don't have an accent. It's everybody else.

Speaker 1: That's what I'm saying too. So please if if you think we're saying words funny or with an accent, please email us and tell us what you think. You know we're always interested. I love having an accent. Thank you. I'm so glad I have an accent. I can say it now.

Chelle: It's elementary, my dear Watson.

Speaker 1: I'm not boring. I have a cool accent or maybe I just say words wrong. I'm not sure.

Chelle: Or maybe we're just high. Who knows?

Speaker 1: Maybe we're just high. That could be it. Future Laylla here. Mystery solved. Apparently the pronunciations of elementary, documentary, and even words like sedimentary are unique to upstate New York and in some cases the Northeast region of the United States. But mostly these pronunciations are unique to upstate New York. So if you ever were curious about whether Chelle and I were actually from that area, here's the proof. Future Laylla out.

Chelle: I do want to let Brittany know in the time we've been talking, I looked up Kappa. I am down, okay? If you've got a cryptid that favors cucumbers and loves to engage in sumo wrestling, I am down. I'm going to be looking this thing up and doing some research because now I'm hooked. A cryptid that likes cucumbers and sumo wrestling. How can I not be hooked on this?

Speaker 1: And don't forget episode 54, Laylla's Birthday Wompus Cat.

Chelle: Oh god. I'm I'm so changing that episode title. Or maybe I'll just leave it for the comedic effect. But hey, unwashed lady flowers as a birthday present, there've been worse. There've been worse things. So with that visual in all of our heads, what have you got for me today as far as goolish stories, Shell?

Speaker 1: Well, I came across this place. The reason it kind of peaked my interest is because it actually reminded me of a of a old mansion from the town I'm from. This is not from the town I'm from, but it just looks like one.

Chelle: The Robertson mansion that we talked about in a previous episode?

Speaker 1: Actually, that's exactly the one it looks like. This is interesting. Here's a question for you. How does an 1840s brick fortress mansion in Southwest Virginia get linked to the classic and tragic Southern rock band?

Chelle: What classic Southern rock band?

Speaker 1: I'm glad you asked because it's one we all love. Lynyrd Skynyrd.

Chelle: Ooh, love Lynyrd Skynyrd.

Speaker 1: What's your name, Sweet Home Alabama? How can you go wrong?

Chelle: Yeah.

Speaker 1: As you are aware obviously, some of the members of Lynyrd Skynyrd met a tragic fate in that 1977 plane crash. What it kill? Like their singer and and somebody else in the band, I believe.

Chelle: Yeah, it was the original lead singer. So any who, back to the mansion. Back in the 1840s, it was called the Major Graham mansion and it's in Wythe County. I'm probably saying this wrong. If you are in Virginia and I'm saying this wrong, I apologize. And like I said, built in the 1840s and it's kind of like that I don't know how to describe it, like a solid brick mansion basically. They actually described it as an imposing brick fortress built in stages. So apparently the first stage started in 1840 and the guy, Major David Graham that the house was built for, he was a Confederate Army officer. So just that alone should give you an idea of the vibe this place has got. So you got a Confederate officer. And as we know, some of those Confederate soldiers and and some of the Union and Confederate soldiers don't realize the war's over.

Speaker 1: Yeah, I've heard that a lot with battle sites.

Chelle: So I mean just that alone, you can just imagine that this place is already crawling, probably literally with soldiers.

Speaker 1: Yeah.

Chelle: So to kind of get the coming together of the Lynyrd Skynyrd story with this mansion, you know kind of fast forwarding Like I said, that was that was in the 1800s, but fast forwarding to 1988 there was a owner Jayce What was his name? JC Weaver. He was a Florida businessman. He had bought 4,000 acres and part of the property included this mansion. What he did was he kind of had He didn't want the house necessarily. He was looking for the 4,000 acres. I didn't find out if he wanted it for agricultural purposes or what, but he wanted the land more so than this particular mansion that just happened to be a part of it.

Speaker 1: Okay.

Chelle: So it kind of went like dormant for decades. People started like kids, neighborhood kids, people passerby started seeing reporting seeing shadows around the property. No one had lived in the house in a significant amount of time. They were seeing faces in the windows. People talked about Clara and they called her a little girl ghost who was believed to have been an orphan that the Graham family cared for back in, you know, the Civil War days. So they would see this child through the windows. They would see different men and women's faces through the windows. Yet no one lived here.

Speaker 1: I wonder what kind of triggered it to start happening.

Chelle: You know, have you ever been inside an house that's been abandoned for a long time?

Speaker 1: Yeah.

Chelle: Like earthly folk.

Speaker 1: Yeah, and it has that kind of eerie feeling.

Chelle: Like it's not abandoned.

Speaker 1: Yeah, okay.

Chelle: I think the ghosts took over, okay? So anyway, this guy has it. He loved the spooky house and even though he didn't live in it, what he would do, he would entertain his friends.

Speaker 1: So he turned it into a party house essentially?

Chelle: Kind of like a party house basically. He played guitar and piano and he absolutely like Lynyrd Skynyrd was like his heroes musically. So he'd throw these parties in the mansion and he'd be singing and playing the guitar and piano and and he'd be like blaring out not just Lynyrd Skynyrd music, but you know all types of music including Lynyrd Skynyrd. Now this is a piece that I kind of found interesting because I would have thought that people like us would have heard of something like this. We used to go to a lot of music festivals and I'm just surprised we haven't heard of this. So in 2007 he launched at this 4,000 acre property. He launched what was called Graham Fest. You ever heard of it?

Speaker 1: Um I don't think so.

Chelle: You ever heard of Graham Fest?

Speaker 1: Uh-uh.

Chelle: It was kind of like funky, but it featured performances by himself um as well as the Rowan Oaks Symphony Orchestra.

Speaker 1: Oh wow.

Chelle: So it was kind of the gamut of the Rowan Oaks Symphony Orchestra all the way down to local yokel folk musicians.

Speaker 1: And I like the Rooney Fest.

Chelle: Basically, yeah. So he like I said, he started this in 2007. In 2009 when he did the Graham Fest, Weaver hired a Lynyrd Skynyrd tribute band called The Long Island Street Survivors. They basically That was the name of that was a tie-in to Lynyrd Skin the original Lynyrd Skynyrd. You know, obviously he's doing this festival. He has this tribute band. He does feature more than just this tribute band. Talk about a guy who can pull together a festival. He was able to include two members of the original Lynyrd Skynyrd band.

Speaker 1: Really?

Chelle: Yeah.

Speaker 1: That's impressive.

Chelle: He has He has got this like guy. On the microphone was backup singer JoJo Billingsley who incidentally had a foreshadowing dream of the plane crash in '77.

Speaker 1: Oh wow. So she had had a dream that the crash was going to happen.

Chelle: And as the backup singer, she ended up not getting on the plane.

Speaker 1: Because of the dream?

Chelle: Because of the dream. So here she is a lot.

Speaker 1: No shit. Very final destination ask.

Chelle: I know, right? Also at the Graham Fest that year, they had on the drums Artemis Pyle, the only Lynyrd Skynyrd band member to uh physically climb out of the wreckage and seek help after the plane crashed.

Speaker 1: Damn.

Chelle: The girl who had the prophetic dream and said I didn't get my ass on that plane and the guy who drug his burning body out of the plane to try to save himself are the two band members who show up at this Graham Fest. So the guy loves Lynyrd Skynyrd, ghosty house, tribute band with two original members that And you know, if this girl's having prophetic dreams, that's got to tell you something already.

Speaker 1: Absolutely.

Chelle: Both Billingsley and Pyle were walking the grounds outside the Major Graham mansion. They were walking along. They were slashing through the swamps, just kind of hanging out. All of the sudden, they hear the final notes of Sweet Home Alabama and Free Bird just kind of fade off.

Speaker 1: How?

Chelle: I don't know how. Ask the Ghost with the Ghost. That was the very last time the two of them were ever physically together ever again because Billingsley died of cancer the following June.

Speaker 1: Oh wow. Damn. That's some shit luck.

Chelle: But imagine like all of a sudden out of nowhere you hear the final notes of Sweet Home Alabama and Free Bird and it was the last time they were together.

Speaker 1: That's wild. That's really fucking wild.

Chelle: So he stops having the Gram Fest. It was over after that. So that 2009 show was that. After that, they decided to turn it into like what we'd call today a modern haunt. In the fall of 2010, they did the first annual haunted house premiere. They did it every October. They did props, skulls, spiders, snakes, you know, the whole haunted house thing. They had a room. You know a house is haunted. The neighborhood and town folks people say they see a little girl in the damn window to the point where they know her name, okay?

Speaker 1: Right?

Chelle: She got little Clara looking out the window. So now you're going to do a family fun haunted house and you're going to have one of the rooms called Clara's room.

Speaker 1: Of course they are. They're going to take advantage of the legend, but that's going to stir shit up.

Chelle: Yeah. So then they used to do tricks where they would try to test the alleged spirit of Clara to see if she would roll a ball back and forth. The all I can think of is poking the bear.

Speaker 1: Yeah, right? That's like a big time poking the bear.

Chelle: They ended up at some point in 2012 bringing in some ghost hunters. I was not able to find out if these were pro pro like we've talked about or more kind of like your everyday mom and pop ghost hunters. But anyway, they brought in some ghost hunters that also were kind of clairvoyant. They were able to record strange messages like the typical my favorite ghost message of all time, get out.

Speaker 1: That's like a classic. It's a staple.

Chelle: But here's another another interesting one. They got several times on their recordings a ghost spirit saying I don't play that tune.

Speaker 1: Really?

Chelle: Yeah.

Speaker 1: Wow, that's different though and that's really related to

Chelle: Yeah, but you got to figure if that house was full of music for most of its existence, there's got to be a ghost in there that thinks they're still playing music. They also got voices that said what's your name and another one said what's your song request.

Speaker 1: Interesting.

Chelle: Here's the thing though. What's your name was the biggest hit single from Leonard Skinner's album Street Survivors, which was the name of the tribute band and the last album by the the original Leonard Skinner folks. Just saying.

Speaker 1: Whoa.

Chelle: Just saying. Mind blown. But wait. Weaver said in 2019 that when he would play the piano in the house alone, there were spirits in there that would hum along with him.

Speaker 1: Oh no. No, that's too creepy. I wouldn't be able to do that. Would you play the piano again if something hummed along with you?

Chelle: I wouldn't make a habit of it. Like one time and I might even run a little bit. But like I'm not just going to like all right, going to go hang out in the mansion, going to go chill with Clara for a bit. We're going to sing some tunes.

Speaker 1: That's a lot of musical people there. That's interesting.

Chelle: But I do want to also point out your most favorite thing on the whole planet.

Speaker 1: Orbs.

Chelle: They have pictures in Clara's bedroom that um are covered in orbs.

Speaker 1: Yes, yes, yes.

Chelle: What they did just to kind of rule out a camera or dust or a bad shot or bad lighting, they had five people in five different spots in the room kind of like almost like in a circle. Think of like a witch's circle. Everybody has a camera and they're all pointing it at the same thing and everybody is getting photographs that are like not just one, two, three. Like we're talking 20, 30, 40 in one shot.

Speaker 1: I am so excited. I think you want to hear.

Chelle: This little girl's room is like freaking orb haven. It could be the little girl. It could be the civil war thing. It could be people who partied there over the years. Who knows?

Speaker 1: That's the thing with orbs that really gets me and that's why I love them and they're so mysterious. Even though I know a lot of them are lens flares or dust or insects, I know that that's what the majority of orbs is. But the ones that intrigue me are the ones that are in this little girl's room. Why that room? Why not all the rooms of the house? You know, why the civil war battle sites? Why not every single open field? So that's what really really intrigues me about orbs and those are the stories I I'm so curious about and can't let go of. I want to go to this room and take pictures. Can we go, Shell? Can we go?

Chelle: I would totally go and it's actually not that far away.

Speaker 1: Ooh.

Chelle: But you know, houses that were built during the civil war unfortunately did have uh separate slave quarters. These folks in that period of time and there was a uh investigation by the Virginia Paranormal Society in 2007. They had some very distinct voices in the slave quarters. They were able to pick up when they asked you know how like investigators will be like what's your name Ghosty Mosty and they actually got a response that in the slave quarters that said Connor.

Speaker 1: Oh wow.

Chelle: When they were in Clara's room and they asked Clara, Clara, can you throw us the ball, they distinctly recorded a no.

Speaker 1: No shit. When EVPs respond, I get chills every time. That freaks me out.

Chelle: They went into an upstairs bedroom that was called the bride's bedroom and they asked if there was they asked if there was a lady in the room and a female voice was recorded. Yes.

Speaker 1: Is there any history on why it's called the bride's room?

Chelle: No, not that I saw.

Speaker 1: Damn. I wonder if there's like a lady in white story in here along with the orbs.

Chelle: There's a damn lady in white story everywhere.

Speaker 1: Everywhere.

Chelle: Then they were in another room called the Confederate room. They were trying to move a table and they recorded a voice saying don't touch that table.

Speaker 1: These are intelligent interactive ghosts. These aren't recordings. They're responding.

Chelle: Very relevant. They're they're being asked specific questions and they're getting responses.

Speaker 1: Specific answers.

Chelle: No. The Ghost Hunters team, they had Ghost Hunters there, you know, the TV show that we love on Sci-Fi. Ghost Hunters was quoted as saying they can't say who or what is haunting the mansion. There was reports of a 7 ft tall phantom on the road outside the mansion. Ghost Hunters believes it was an optical illusion, but there are people that are like absolutely not. I saw it. I don't care what they say. This is real. I am not crazy. So I I don't know what to think about that.

Speaker 1: That's a tough one. You know, if they're thinking that it's it's not, you know, what they saw wasn't relevant, but other people are saying they have seen it and experienced it. That's hard.

Chelle: Right. So there were people that were very adamant that Ghost Hunters was was kind of dissing their Ghosty stories.

Speaker 1: We don't catch everything. You know, you and I don't catch everything. They're Ghost Hunters is human too. Maybe they just happened to miss that one.

Chelle: Well, and also we've also over the times have noticed that sometimes they're more receptive to talk to certain people and not to certain people and maybe to a ghost talking to a ghost hunter is like us having to talk to like a lawyer or like getting called into the boss's office. You know, you're like, oh, I don't want to do that. No. But if you're like, hey, you want to talk to Laylla, hell yeah. Or hey, do you want to go in your boss's office? That's a hard no.

Speaker 1: Exactly. You know, it could be a case of that, but basically they claim that the Gram mansion will scare you. This is where you get me in the fuck around and find out attitude. People say that they've had folks pass out because they're so scared of the Ghosty activity there.

Chelle: Or because the energy is so potent, it just kind of overload some people's system.

Speaker 1: Right. They say they couldn't get through the haunted house because the spirit was attacking them. I'm not saying they're wrong. I am not discounting anyone's experience, but wow, it was attacking them.

Chelle: I mean, we have seen some of these paranormal investigator groups go into places and come out with scratches they can't explain or bruises or marks on them. So maybe that's what they're referring to. You know, sometimes people get their hair pulled or their clothes pulled.

Speaker 1: Right. But for $20, you yourself can go to Wythe County, Virginia and go through the Gram mansion and see all the Orby orbs that your heart can take.

Chelle: For 20 bucks, I would go check it out, which is probably what they're counting on. But you know, if people are legit getting orb photos in that room, I would like to see it.

Speaker 1: But I think that you know, honestly, I think they're trying to make too much of the Leonard Skinner tie-in. I think that okay, the owner liked Leonard Skinner. He'd play Leonard Skinner music. The two people were there.

Chelle: Everybody liked Leonard Skinner back then.

Speaker 1: Everybody likes if if you don't know Free Bird, who are you? Just because the two surviving folks were there for the last Gram Fest, like I don't know if that's got any relevance, but I think they're playing off that. You know, kind of like I'm not saying Amityville wasn't a little weird, but I don't think what happened happened. Kind of the same thing. I'm not saying there is a music being played there, but I don't think that Leonard Skinner is tied to this house.

Chelle: Yeah, no, it's definitely interesting with all the the music that happens and people that make music comments, but

Speaker 1: Don't make a mountain out of a mole hill just to make a buck.

Chelle: Yeah, and and the what's your name? That's a common question that people ask. Ghosts say that. People say that to ghosts. What's it's one of the questions they say what's your name.

Speaker 1: Yeah, but they were they were asking specific questions and getting specific answers though.

Chelle: Yes, but what I'm saying is that might not necessarily be a reference to the song. That all.

Speaker 1: Yeah. Oh yeah, yeah, I get what you're saying. I get what you're saying. Yeah, yeah.

Chelle: So it's just a little too tight.

Speaker 1: And then they were just able to kind of

Chelle: Yeah, that's Yeah, on first on first hearing it that sounds like oh wow, what a great connection. But then I thought about it and I was like, well, that's what they all say.

Speaker 1: Are you finding meaning where there's none?

Chelle: Yeah, ghosts ghosts all say that. I mean, that's the first thing an investigator will ask, what's your name? What's your age? How did you die? You know, where were you born? What's your birthday? But what's your name is a common thing. So I don't know. I think that's just a little too ephemeral of a connection.

Speaker 1: I am sure this place is haunted. I am sure Clara is there and people are looking out the windows, but I don't think that has a damn thing to do with Leonard Skinner. I actually think honestly, I would guess that probably a lot of them have more civil war ties.

Chelle: It sounds like it. Especially when you get orbs involved, a lot of them do seem to be around a lot of those civil war sites for sure.

Speaker 1: Yeah, I mean Gettysburg is just one big orb.

Chelle: Right? The whole place just an orb.

Speaker 1: Yeah.

Chelle: Everybody gets orbs there.

Speaker 1: So I I think it's interesting. I think it sounds like a cool place. I just think they're milking the Leonard Skinner tie-in, but otherwise I think it's spooktacular, totally worth the 20 bucks. I want to pay the 20 bucks. If you're going to threaten me with a good time of passing out, bring it on. I just don't totally buy into Leonard Skinner tie-in. That's all.

Chelle: Okay. Okay. As someone who has presented some stories with sketchy aspects, I respect that. I think I agree with you. I think the Leonard Skinner is more for attention maybe.

Speaker 1: Right. That's kind of how I feel. But I do think it's probably legitimately haunted, absolutely. But I just think they're milking that tie-in.

Chelle: I think you might be right, but I want to go. I'll pay the 20 bucks. I want me some good orb photos.

Speaker 1: Anybody who is near Wythe County, Virginia, if you have been to this house, I need to know if you passed out. I need to know.

Chelle: If you passed out at this place, email us the Stone Witches Hour at gmail.com.

Speaker 1: Or if you want to pass out there and kind of let us know how it goes, that's cool too.

Chelle: Or if you passed out there and think we say some words funny, email us. And we will say elementary, documentary and Oregon all day long for your amusement. So

Speaker 1: I want to go on Google and hear how they tell me to pronounce Oregon. This is going to Is it Oregon? Oregon?

Chelle: I don't know.

Speaker 1: Is that what they say? But that's Oregon is like an organ in your body. Like your heart is an organ. Oregon is a state. Shit, we're screwed.

Chelle: I don't know what that was. The indoctrination runs so deep. I think I am saying them the right way. I'm so confused.

Speaker 1: The weed makes it sound right.

Chelle: There you go. The weed makes it all sound right. So before I get into my stories and I'm sure you can guess I've given you a huge hint where we're going. I want to say that we started this podcast just so that you and I who had moved to opposite sides of the country, we started out. We met in New York. You moved to Salem, Massachusetts. I moved to Southern California and now all over the place and we were separated and I missed you and I wanted an excuse to get together and I'm like, hey,

Speaker 1: This was how we started hanging out from 3,000 miles away.

Chelle: Exactly. Just like we used to, we get together, we talk about wild paranormal shit. We do fun witchy stuff and we would smoke mass quantities of cannabis.

Speaker 1: And enough to kill a rhino.

Chelle: Thus the Stone Witches Hour was born. But the podcast has started being heard all over the world, which still blows my mind. Hello world. Love you guys.

Speaker 1: Okay, fess up. Spill the beans. Who who out of the Nifty 50 United States who is not listening?

Chelle: Just one state. Can you believe this? Whole world, most of the USA, one freaking state.

Speaker 1: We have listeners in New Zealand. What damn American ain't listening to us? What one? Because I'm driving there.

Chelle: South Dakota.

Speaker 1: Wow, that's far away.

Chelle: Not one person, not one person in South Dakota has listened to the Stone Witches Hour.

Speaker 1: Why?

Chelle: I don't know. We're amazing.

Speaker 1: Let me ask you a question. Let me ask you a question. We have listeners in North Dakota?

Chelle: Yes.

Speaker 1: Okay, everyone from North Dakota, I need you to drive across the border with your little Spotify in your Apple Music and get these people going. We're fun.

Chelle: Maybe I should just say that no one lives in South Dakota because some episode not too long ago we were talking about Missouri. We say that about every state. You know, we travel through we're like, oh, we're going to such and such state. We're like, oh, nobody lives in such and such state. And I said that on air about Missouri and that episode got so many listeners from Missouri. I'm so sorry. I apologize.

Speaker 1: You're a jerk.

Chelle: I am a jerk. I'm an asshole. I know people live in Missouri. I'm so sorry.

Speaker 1: I happen to know I I know a person who lives in Missouri actually. So I know there's at least one.

Chelle: Obviously that person is fake. No one lives in Missouri, Shell. So maybe I should just say that no one lives in South Dakota.

Speaker 1: Cuz then they'll all start listening.

Chelle: And then our listenership from South Dakota will go through the roof if the past is any history. So hi Missouri. I love you guys and uh hopefully hi South Dakota.

Speaker 1: Here's what we need to do. We're going to give a shout out to Montana, Wyoming, North Dakota, Nebraska, Iowa and Minnesota. You know why?

Chelle: Why?

Speaker 1: Because those are all the states that surround South Dakota and now they feel left out. Now South Dakota feels real left out, don't you over there in South Dakota?

Chelle: South Dakota, take that.

Speaker 1: It's because of Mount Rushmore. I know it.

Chelle: Is that it? They're all just looking at us disapprovingly with that stony glare.

Speaker 1: Because they're like they're smoking the devil's lettuce and it's way better than what we had.

Chelle: Good point. Good point.

Speaker 1: Yeah.

Chelle: Well, good old Washington there could have rolled up the constitution, smoked that. Oh, that's that's blasphemous. That feels blasphemous. I shouldn't say that. That sounds so bad. All right, so to cover up my blasphemy before the FBI contacts me, I'm going to talk about a place in South Dakota to try and entice some listeners from there.

Speaker 1: How about this? I'm going to put this out there. If we get a listener from South Dakota, I'll do a tarot reading for them.

Chelle: Ooh, hey. Do you live in South Dakota? Can you prove it? Email us at the Stone Witches Hour gmail.com. Shell's got a tarot reading for you.

Speaker 1: I'll do a tarot reading for you. That's how much I want a listener from every state.

Chelle: We'll party. We will celebrate. I will I don't know. What's what's the best weed in South Dakota? We'll have to look it up.

Speaker 1: Is that legal? Is it legal in South Dakota?

Chelle: It's illegal. Recreational cannabis is illegal and the voters want it that way.

Speaker 1: Okay, now we know why we have no listeners in South Dakota.

Chelle: Now we know why. Wow. That's not nice.

Speaker 1: Possession of more than 2 oz is a class 6 felony. Oh my.

Chelle: Are you shitting me?

Speaker 1: Since 2020, the voters of South Dakota have passed measure 26, which approved medical cannabis. Medical is legal in South Dakota, but prohibited for recreational.

Chelle: Wow.

Speaker 1: Last November, the idea of recreational weed came up again in South Dakota and they voted it down.

Chelle: Damn, and they're like not too far from Colorado.

Speaker 1: So it is medically legal. So that's a start, but it is it is illegal recreationally.

Chelle: All right, South Dakotans, we get it. We understand. We're not happy about it, but we get it.

Speaker 1: But I' am going to talk about your haunted state anyways because

Chelle: It's haunted.

Speaker 1: That's very haunted. They are home to the haunted Black Hills in the Badlands.

Chelle: That's where the Badlands are?

Speaker 1: Either all are part of them, right?

Chelle: No shit.

Speaker 1: We're going to Deadwood, South Dakota. You ever heard of that, Shell?

Chelle: That already sounds like there's some stuff going on there.

Speaker 1: Yeah, Deadwood, a lot of people might have heard from I believe there's a TV show called Deadwood.

Chelle: There is, yeah.

Speaker 1: Loosely based on some history, but it's very famous in the US of A because a lot of famous cowboys and infamous outlaws either died in Deadwood or passed through Deadwood. Can you name any cowboys, Shell?

Chelle: The Marlboro Man, John Wayne, John Wayne.

Speaker 1: I mean like a real in real life cowboy.

Chelle: Um Billy the Kid, there's one for you. He made John Wayne.

Speaker 1: Close enough. I'm sure he's been in Deadwood. I'm sure

Chelle: He played a cowboy on TV.

Speaker 1: There you go. It works. So a lot of cowboys Deadwood became a town when gold was discovered in the Southern Black Hills in 1874. So that it was during the Great Gold Rush of America and a lot of miners came to the Black Hills in 1876 and they came to this spot. It was a big gulch and it had a creek with gold in it and it was filled with dead trees, where the name came from. Deadwood.

Chelle: Oh, so this was one of those big huge gold rush towns then.

Speaker 1: Exactly.

Chelle: Okay.

Speaker 1: Basically the population grew up literally overnight. As soon as gold was discovered in the water, it went from not very many people, not very many colonial people there because actually the place had been granted to the Lakota people in 1868 through the Treaty of Fort Laramie and the treaty guaranteed ownership of the Black Hills to the Lakota people and the Black Hills are sacred to the Lakota. And so there was a lot of disputes. All these people came in wanting this gold on land that had been promised to the Lakota. And of course all these arguments reached the Supreme Court and very obviously the Lakota did not win. So despite that by about 1877, there were 12,000 people living in Deadwood with up to about 25,000 people at its height. So gold, as you know, when it would attract miners into an area, it also attracted everybody else. It brought their families, so there were shops and of course there's a lot of single guys, so there were bars and saloons and brothels that were

Chelle: Well, that was that was all you could do back then. You were either drinking or prostituting.

Speaker 1: Lack of a more vulgar word.

Chelle: Yeah, especially for women. There weren't a lot of ways for women to make money and there weren't a lot of ways for women to be safe in that time. Lawlessness was rife. I mean, there was a reason why, you know, the whole cowboy trope with the gun fights at noon and

Speaker 1: And back then women weren't even allowed to really own property.

Chelle: No, women pretty much were property at that time. So one of the few ways they could make money was by being a prostitute or by owning a brothel. Deadwood was homed quite a few brothels uh including women named Madam Mustache and Dirty M.

Speaker 1: Just call me Dirty M.

Chelle: Right? I'll be Madam Mustache. Madam Dora DuFran was actually the wealthiest brothel owner in Deadwood and she was a very popular with several of the famous cowboys I'm about to mention. Deadwood is famous because mostly of Wild Bill Hickok and Calamity Jane.

Speaker 1: Okay, I know I've heard of Calamity Jane.

Chelle: Right? These are famous cowboy and cowgirls in the late 1870s. Wild Bill Hickok was a gambler as well as all sorts of other things and he was in Deadwood when he died. He was in a hotel and he was playing poker and he got a hand which is to this day. As a poker player, I knew exactly what they were talking about when they said he had what's called the dead man's hand.

Speaker 1: I don't even know what that is, not that I'm a huge poker player.

Chelle: A dead man's hand in poker is aces over eights. It's two pair, aces and eights, specifically black aces and black eights, which is the exact hand that it's rumored that Wild Bill Hickok had when he was gunned to death by a lesser poker player who thought he was cheating.

Speaker 1: Oh shit.

Chelle: Yeah. So that was the original dead man's hand. So Calamity Jane also worked with Wild Bill Hickok and was known to have a huge crush on him and followed him everywhere he went. He did not return her affections.

Speaker 1: They never do.

Chelle: But they are buried side by side in Mount Moriah Cemetery in Deadwood, which was her wish actually. So the Erp brothers, Wyatt and Morgan Erp, also visited Deadwood.

Speaker 1: Okay, I've heard of Wyatt Erp.

Chelle: Yep. They left uh for Dodge City, but they were known to come through Deadwood and also Doc Holliday, another well-known cowboy also was known to frequent Deadwood. But this place is also known to be haunted as fuck. The whole town. You can go visit historic Deadwood and see a lot of these places, some of which still operate as hotels. Some are uh restaurants now and I believe one of them is a museum. So in this famous cowboy town are the Fairmont, the Adams House, the Bullock Hotel and Mount Moriah Cemetery and all of them are super haunted. So we're going we'll start with the Fairmont, which was in the 1800s. It was a brothel and a saloon. So it uh it was a saloon and it was found out that um while it was a saloon, there was a man named Henry and his girlfriend, who was a prostitute, had died of syphilis.

Speaker 1: Uh yeah, that was kind of a thing back then.

Chelle: Yeah, and he killed himself because of it. He was so distraught and people will hear from him. I believe that psychics often hear from him in particular and he's known as the grumpy man. He's still very angry about the death of his girlfriend.

Speaker 1: That sucks.

Chelle: Yeah. This place unfortunately has been the site of quite a few different I guess a lot of people have romantic difficulties, maybe because it was a brothel, I don't know. But uh a woman named Maggie killed herself by jumping out of a window there after her boyfriend broke up with her and her ghost is often seen wandering the halls looking for him.

Speaker 1: Oh. There's also a um in 1907, a girl who worked upstairs when it was just a hotel, her name was Margaret Broadwater and she jumped out of third

Chelle: floor window, and she had gotten pregnant and she wasn't married. So

Speaker 1: Which was not a good thing back then.

Chelle: Also that same year, a man came in whose girlfriend worked there, and he shot a man who was a client of the girlfriend, so I guess she was a prostitute. So he went in and shot the client, shot his girlfriend, and then while he was escaping, accidentally shot himself and bled to death on the sidewalk.

Speaker 1: Dumb ass.

Chelle: And all three of their ghosts are still there.

Speaker 1: I hope his ghost walks around kicking itself in the ass.

Chelle: Right? The place is crawling with orbs, and people will often catch photographs of orbs, particularly in the hallways. And there's also a little boy that people will take pictures of, but I'm not sure where he came from, but he shows up in photographs as well. So another place in town where people see ghosts is called the historic Adams House. And the Adams House was built in 1892, and it was owned by a gentleman named W. E. Adams, who was one of the founders of Deadwood. And it was reported to be one of the finest homes in Deadwood and west of Omaha. So W. E. Adams purchased the home and arrived in Deadwood in 1877. And he tried gold mining, but he wasn't really good at it. So then he and his brother went into business at a grocery store, which honestly, if I was going to move to someplace like this, that's what I would do. Like I wouldn't try gold mining. That'd be too hard and too difficult, I think. I would start up a shop selling things to gold miners. That's what they did. They made a fortune running a grocery store. Unfortunately, tragedy after tragedy struck Mr. Adams as soon as he made it rich at his grocery stores. His wife, Alice, was diagnosed with cancer. She went to California to be with their daughter, Helen, who was pregnant and about to have a baby. She got there, but unfortunately the cancer was further along than she realized, and she passed away shortly after getting to her daughter's house.

Speaker 1: Oh.

Chelle: The stress of her mother passing away caused Helen to go into premature labor, and she died. The baby only lived for a few hours, and then the baby also died.

Speaker 1: All three of them?

Chelle: In less than 48 hours, he had lost his wife, his daughter, and his granddaughter.

Speaker 1: That's a shit day. The fuck? Wow.

Chelle: It was just a couple years later, he met a woman named Mary Mastrovich Visich. A lot of people thought this was a little bit of a was kind of like a what they call a May-December romance because he was 73 and she was only 29 at the time.

Speaker 1: Gotcha.

Chelle: And then I guess within a few years of getting married, he died of a stroke inside the house. And shortly afterwards, his wife left, saying she couldn't stay there because the house was haunted. She kept hearing him walking around upstairs. And so she literally locked the house up and did not come back or touch it for 50 years.

Speaker 1: 50?

Chelle: 50.

Speaker 1: Oh my god. It just kind of was just dormant?

Chelle: She just left it locked up, and she refused to step foot in it, saying it was haunted. When she would come back to town, she'd stay in a hotel nearby. She would not stay in the house.

Speaker 1: Oh weird. Did she stay it was her husband?

Chelle: Yes. She said it was definitely him.

Speaker 1: If that were me and my husband died and was haunting me, wouldn't you stay and be like, oh, let's stay together?

Chelle: She was 29 years old, married a 73 year old very wealthy widow.

Speaker 1: Okay, yeah, yeah, yeah, okay.

Chelle: I don't know. I'm not saying it wasn't a love match, but no, probably wasn't a love match.

Speaker 1: Oh.

Chelle: So Mary sold the house and it was turned into a museum and a bed and breakfast, and it was kept exactly as it was. Everything from sheet music being on the piano to medications being in the cabinets.

Speaker 1: Like someone just like got up, put their shoes on and walked out the door and just never came back.

Chelle: Literally. Yep. So it was like a perfect perfectly preserved time capsule into a life from half a century before.

Speaker 1: Wow.

Chelle: As soon as it was purchased and opened up, people talked about hearing someone walking around upstairs, hearing voices in other rooms when no one else was in the home, and smelling the distinctive smell of cigar smoke as if someone had just been smoking in the room, even though obviously no one smokes in there. In one of the rooms, there's a rocking chair that will rock on its own. There's a story from one of the people, like one of the docents that runs the museum. Apparently, there was a couple doing a tour of the house, and they asked him how he got the rocking chair to rock. And of course, he wanted them to explain what they were talking about, and they went upstairs to the room, and the rocking chair was still rocking back and forth. And he explained to them that there's no trick, that it wasn't anything they did, and everyone kind of got freaked out. So he looked at the rocking chair and he said, stop it. And it abruptly stopped as if someone had reached out and grabbed it.

Speaker 1: They listen?

Chelle: Apparently they do, but I thought that was a little freaky. There are other paranormal events there. There's lots of moved objects. People will continuously, you know, put something down and it's moved somewhere else. Furniture will move, and particularly that rocking chair is sometimes found in other areas and will rock on its own. Black Hills paranormal investigations has been there. They were contacted by the executive director because staff were experiencing a lot of paranormal activity, so they wanted them to come in and kind of see what was going on. And she says that when they would come in during the day, after the staff would leave at night, they'd shut everything down. But when they'd come in every morning, all the lights in the whole place would be on, even though no one had been in there, everything would be switched on.

Speaker 1: I'd be pissed, you know, if ghosts want to play around, fine. You want to move ship, fine. Do not mess with my electric bill. That shit costs money.

Chelle: Sometimes the the manager and other staff will report seeing the shadow of someone walking back and forth in the windows of the upstairs floor, even when the place is empty. Probably the woman. We'll just call her a lady in white. So people hear footsteps continuously up and downstairs and around the upstairs. So this Black Hills paranormal investigation was there. And while they were downstairs, they heard voices coming from upstairs. So they moved their investigation upstairs, and then they heard the conversation continuing downstairs. So they checked with their they checked with their crew outside to see if there were people maybe standing outside the house having a conversation, but there was no one there. So it was almost as if the activity moved when they did.

Speaker 1: Kind of like, oh, you've invaded our private conversation. I guess we'll move.

Chelle: Exactly. And they have EVPs there where one of their investigators is walking up the stairs and he stops because he thinks he can hear someone walking up behind him, and you can distinctly hear three steps being taken when he's not moving and there's no one else there.

Speaker 1: Oh.

Chelle: At one time they were in the library and they heard what sounded like whistling. So one of their investigators kind of jokingly whistled and it whistled back very clearly and much closer.

Speaker 1: Oh see, that would be like I'd be like, what?

Chelle: Right? They also have some an EVP where they're in one of the rooms called the smoking room. And while they're talking, you can clearly hear a small child's voice talking over top of them, asking who they are.

Speaker 1: Now can you go there now? Is this like open to the public?

Chelle: It is it's a museum, and you can go there. And I do believe occasionally they have ghost hunts there as well.

Speaker 1: Probably like during Halloween or whatever.

Chelle: Yeah, exactly. One of the other places is called the Bullock Hotel. This was built by a gentleman named Seth Bullock, and he'd wanted to go to Deadwood to open up a hardware store. Again, that's where the money is, is selling stuff to the people looking for gold. But he ended up becoming the sheriff, and he was a US marshal there for a while. During his stay there, there was a cholera outbreak, and a lot of people in town got very very ill. And so he opened his house up to allow people to bring their children there to try and nurse them to health. And unfortunately,

Speaker 1: a lot of children died.

Chelle: Yes.

Speaker 1: So I guess we can kind of guess what kind of ghosties are there.

Chelle: Exactly.

Speaker 1: That's sad.

Chelle: Yeah, that the house is filled with small children ghosts. It was also a hotel after he passed away, and a young man hung himself in room 211. And unfortunately, that poor soul can still be seen in that room from time to time. So room 211 is one of the more haunted ones. They also say that Seth Bullock himself still roams around the building, and he's kind of a prankster. He's more the type of ghost that likes to rearrange furniture until someone tells him to stop it. Like you said, he listens. He does like to rearrange furniture. And also one time apparently he helped a lost little boy. So one of the more popular stories is that there's a family staying at the Bullock Hotel not too long ago, like in the mid 1900s. They'd lost their young son, and they got the the hotel staff involved trying to find him, and they searched the hotel from top to bottom. Finally, defeated, went back to their room to try and see if they could call someone or get more help. They go back to their room, and the little boy is just sitting on the bed, and he's just playing with some toys, happy and contented.

Speaker 1: Wait, is the little boy real or a ghost?

Chelle: Real. He was a he was their real son, and he went missing. When they went back to the room, he was just sitting there on the bed, just playing with toys and perfectly content. So they asked him what happened, and he said that he left the room to go get a soda and had gotten lost. And a nice man found him and helped him find his room. And they were like, really? What nice man? You know, he kind of described a guy, but it wasn't until the next morning when they went to check out, he said, that's the man. And he pointed to a portrait behind the desk of Seth Bullock.

Speaker 1: Oh no shit. No shit. Well, I've always thought that that kids can see things that adults have kind of shut the door to.

Chelle: Oh absolutely. Now the cemetery is also haunted. It's called Mount Mariah Cemetery.

Speaker 1: It almost sounds like the whole damn town's haunted.

Chelle: It pretty much is. This cemetery is divided into multiple sections, so you've got the the Potter's Field where there's all like a bunch of unknown graves. There's also a mass grave that is from when a a lumber mill burned down while people in the houses nearby were sleeping. It was late at night, so when the lumber mill burned down, it it unfortunately killed a bunch of people in their sleep. And so there's also a mass grave of people that were caught in that fire. There's also a section for all the children that died during that cholera and scarlet fever outbreak. Another section where Civil War and Indian War veterans are buried. And again, the famous graves of Wild Bill Hickok and Calamity Jane are there as well.

Speaker 1: But the question is is is the spirits of them there?

Chelle: Some people say Calamity Jane is there, and they often feel like someone is watching them as they walk through the cemetery. It's a very common feeling. There's orbs everywhere in the cemetery, but mostly it's the children that are there. A common occurrence is to hear children laughing and to hear rustling as if someone's kind of running up to you, but you know, obviously nobody is there. People will see spirits walking around, particularly of small children at night, walking through or people dressed in older period clothing that you know, aren't there when they try to catch up to them. And also the gates are known to open and close on their own.

Speaker 1: I feel like a lot of these places, it seems there's some of Victorian women, especially in the Victorian dresses and ghosties, are two thirds of the world's ghosties from the Victorian era?

Chelle: I think maybe those are the ones that we notice as being out of place. Maybe ghosts that are dressed like us we don't notice because they just look like a regular person. You know, just because someone walks down a street and around a corner, you wouldn't automatically assume that's a ghost. But if someone's dressed in an outfit that's out of date and goes around the corner, you might be curious enough to follow them. And then when you see they've disappeared into thin air, that's when you might start to question. But if they're just dressed like you and me, who's going to know?

Speaker 1: Damn it. I'm in Salem, man. Now every time I go to work, I'm going to be looking like is that person real? Are they a ghost? Are they real? Are they a ghost? In the way people dress and costume you around here, I 'm not going to know who's dressed in period clothing or who is actually from the 1600s here.

Chelle: I don't know how you go to work today in mundane clothing. If I lived in Salem, I would go to work in the most outrageous outfits. I would dress as my witchiest badass self every fucking day. I don't know how you don't do that.

Speaker 1: Well, you know, there are some days where I go to work looking a little more in place than others.

Chelle: You do have like a regular mundane office job, so I guess you can't really let your witch flag fly.

Speaker 1: I do. But funny side note, you know, we're doing this this big uh redesign, and they're like, well, you know, we want to make sure we're being respectful of the witch community. Hey Chelle, what do you think? And I 'm laughing. I'm like, yep, resident office witch here. Let's just let's just talk.

Chelle: Can I just say that warms my little pagan heart? I love that that they actually want to be respectful to the local pagans. And of course that they reached out to my bestie Shell cuz you're the witch.

Speaker 1: Yeah, well When you work in a in a radius near the bewitched statue, there's got to be some level of respect going on.

Chelle: I just love that you're that witch.

Speaker 1: I know, right?

Chelle: Well, so that's pretty much my story, haunted Deadwood in South Dakota.

Speaker 1: South Dakota. Dear Deadwood, smoke a big fat joint. You you'll feel better. I swear to god.

Chelle: And find out what a wampus cat means. Just listen to the episode.

Speaker 1: Oh my god, I am going to go back and listen to the wampus cat just because the episode is titled Laylla Laylla's Birthday Wampus Cat.

Chelle: I am taking that down. That is the worst idea ever. Whose idea was that anyway? That's awful.

Speaker 1: Yours. Whatever.

Chelle: I just want to say that that that you yourself, Laylla, can take full credit for naming that episode, and I appreciate our nice wonderful Karen for letting us know that Laylla has a dirty ass wampus cat on her birthday.

Speaker 1: I do. That is the funniest thing I have ever freaking heard. All right, fine. I'm leaving the episode. It's fucking hilarious. I cannot wait to go listen to it. Oh my good Gideon, that's fantastic.

Chelle: Yay. I just I just will you please remember next week for next week's episode, I just want you to do a quick check in, and I want you to let not only myself but the other listeners know if we had a jump in listens on the wampus cat episode.

Speaker 1: It's probably going to be me cuz I'm going to be getting really high, and I'm going to be listening and laughing so hard. I'm just going to be repeating it over and over again. I'll let you know.

Chelle: Please tell your husband what a wampus cat really is.

Speaker 1: Oh no, I'm not going to tell him. You can't make me. If you have any other interesting names for a dirty or, you know, not dirty feminine flower, send them in. I'd like to not make that kind of blunder with an episode title ever again.

Chelle: You know, I like I like that we get the blunder after the episode title's been up there for about 30 weeks.

Speaker 1: Oh man. Why didn't anyone tell me this before?

Chelle: Well, you know what? That's what our listeners are for, shooting us emails, telling us reminding reminding us about your dirty ass wampus cat.

Speaker 1: I love you guys. There's not enough weed, Shell. Not enough weed.

Chelle: There's not. There's not.

Speaker 1: Fine.

Chelle: That being said, I think it's time that we both wrap it up, pack another, and get on with next week's show.

Speaker 1: Absolutely. So please tell a friend, have them tell a friend, make it get all the way to South Dakota. But like, subscribe, pass on the news of the stoned witches hour to everybody, all your favorite cannabis friends, your witchy friends, your paranormal story friends.

Chelle: If it can't get much funnier than this guys, like I don't know what you're doing when you're listening to this, but you can't tell me that you aren't just busting out laughing because sometimes we're just not.

Speaker 1: Yeah, and we love hanging out with y'all. Invite your friends, please. And please please leave a message. We love to hear them. They help the show out. Give us five stars on Apple Podcasts or whatever platform you listen, if you like us obviously. And send us your emails, tell us what we say funny. We'll see you next week on the stoned witches hour. Stay high, stay happy.

Chelle: Stay wampus.

Speaker 1: Don't. Actually don't.
