It's witchcraft.

Hey, it's 4:20 AM. Hi, and welcome to episode 68 of The Stoned Witches Hour. On this podcast, two best friends separated by way too many miles get together to smoke mass quantities of cannabis while telling each other the spookiest tales of cryptids, ghosts, ghouls, and true crime from across the USA. Coming to you today with ghosts and ghouls from the Grand Canyon, I'm Laylla.

Chelle: And bringing some foreplay before episode 69, I'm Chelle.

Laylla: Ooh, I love it. I can't wait to hear what you've got to say. But first, let's talk about our last episode and how Britney pointed out that we say a few words funny. I'm editing the episode and I'm, I get to the part where we're talking about documentary, elementary.

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: I'm like, this is so weird to me. I'm such a word nerd, I have to look this up, right? So, I go online and I start looking and I find a YouTube video. Two ways to say elementary.

Chelle: No, there's not.

Laylla: Uh-huh. Wait till you hear this. Elementry and elementary.

Chelle: Yeah, but the the end of element- elementary, it it doesn't end with t-r-e-e. It's not elementry. Like, there's no tree in the word.

Laylla: None of them are elementary. So, I had to look a little further. What? Elementry or elementary. Those are it. So, I had to look further because that can't be right. And apparently, once I found some people who are into local dialects and accents, that's where I found out that upstate New York is the only place where people say documentary, elementary, and sedimentary. Are you kidding me? No, I'm not. They're like the only people on the planet who say No wonder people in my my mundane day job laugh at me when I say things like that. That's it. Some places in Pennsylvania, some places on the East Coast a little bit, but almost exclusively to upstate New York. So, I was like, if you doubted where we were from, here's how you know.

Chelle: That's funny. That is funny.

Laylla: So, I thought that that was pretty hilarious. And it was Britney, was it Britney? Yes, Britney told us about the Kappa. And she's also the one, Britney is also the one that said we say elementary, documentary, and Oregon wrong. All right, Britney. Now, did you look up Oregon? What's the deal with Oregon? For Oregon, I'm going to pull one of the many emails that we got in regards to how weirdly we say words.

Chelle: We actually got a bunch of emails about how weird we say words.

Laylla: Apparently, people are laughing their asses off over us across the country and around the world because just upstate New York says that. That's how they're spelled, damn it. T-a-r-y. How else are you supposed to say Terry? Where do they get tree out of that?

Chelle: I have a funny mundane world story for you real quick. Yesterday, at my work, Massachusetts has some weird town names. They even have like TikToks about how weird the names are.

Laylla: Understandable.

Chelle: So, I had to talk to a coworker about another branch of our office in what I call Leominster. And he's like, "Hold on a second." And I could tell he put me on speakerphone. And see, I was working from home and he was in the office that day. And I could hear he turned me on speakerphone. And he goes, "Can you say that again?" I go, "Leominster." And I could literally hear the whole freaking office bust out laughing at me. Apparently, they pronounce it Lemonster. And I'm like, then why isn't it spelled l-e-m-o-n-s-t-e-r? If you want to say Lemonster, Lemonster. Leominster is how it's spelled. What is wrong with people? It can't just be me. You're laughing at me, too.

Laylla: I'm not laughing at you, I'm laughing at Massachusetts because you are so right. Just look at freaking Worcester. I'm sorry, that's not how it's spelled.

Chelle: Worcester.

Laylla: Right, that's right. So, it's not us, it's the rest of the world, I'm telling you.

Chelle: Okay, so how do you pronounce Oregon? Did you figure that out? Because I need to know, because now I'm dumbfounded.

Laylla: Okay, so in the landslide of emails that we got, Lolly Kelsey emailed us and she says, "Hey guys, I just want to say that I absolutely love your podcast and can't wait to listen to it every week at work." Where are you people working that we're okay to listen to? But anyways, "while I smoke more of this joint, I am also listening to your all's older podcasts as well. I'm from North Carolina and have been to Major Graham Mansion's haunted attraction several times." So, we're going to have to look that one up. She says, "I always have such a blast there. I personally have never seen anything there, but while going through the quote-unquote haunted house, you definitely get vibes that there is something there besides you and the workers. I have heard several stories of people seeing shadows there and always feel like someone is watching me." Then she says, "Also, I have never heard anyone else pronounce elementary, documentary, and Oregon like y'all do. If y'all heard me, you would definitely think I am the one with the accent. My southern way of saying these words are elementry, documentry, and Oregon." Oregon.

Chelle: Oregon? Really? Oregon?

Laylla: Oregon.

Chelle: Is that how people say it?

Laylla: Oregon. Oregon. I guess so. Elementry, documentry, and Oregon.

Chelle: Okay. Elementry, document- wait. I can do elementry, but is it documentry? Documentry?

Laylla: Uh-huh. Like a, documentry. Okay.

Chelle: So, documentry or Oregon? Oregon?

Laylla: Yeah, o-r-a-h-gun. Oregon.

Chelle: Oregon?

Laylla: Oregon.

Chelle: But but it's not spelled g-u-n at the end.

Laylla: I don't know. Oregon? Like, that's not how it's spelled.

Laylla: I I know, hey, you know, I'm not sure what.

Chelle: People say Oregon? Is that really what it's called? I'm telling you.

Laylla: Oregon Trail, man. I played Oregon Trail. It's the Oregon Trail. My sixth grade teacher called it the Oregon Trail, so I it has to be, I don't know.

Chelle: Someone from Oregon has to weigh in here. I need an Oregon person.

Laylla: Maybe they're talking Maybe they're talking about a different place.

Chelle: Maybe. Maybe there's a whole another state that we have not heard of yet. It's possible. It's possible. I don't know. Anyway.

Laylla: I think we need to start a movement where everything is spelled phonetically. There you go. I mean, you'd think. I mean, my goodness, what the heck?

Chelle: My first question is, why wouldn't you pronounce elementary and documentary the same way? Because they're spelled the same way at the end of the word. I'm so confused.

Laylla: We're going to have to start a whole new podcast trying to get to the bottom of why everyone else says these words wrong. She finishes by saying, "I have a super southern accent and would love to hear y'all try to pronounce them like that on the podcast." Well, there you go, we tried. "Thank you for making my workdays a little better and keep on staying high and staying spooky. Kelsey from North Carolina."

Chelle: I love that people listen to us from while they're at work because I couldn't listen to us at work. That'd be bad.

Laylla: Well, thankfully, I work from home, so, you know, I'm a pretty lenient boss, I could listen to me at work.

Chelle: But the funny thing is, and this is for Kelsey and all of our other southern friends, we might be from upstate New York, but we actually do say y'all. What are y'all doing?

Laylla: Oh, everybody says y'all now.

Chelle: Where are y'all going? It's like we say y'all, but we also say elementary. We've got we've got listeners in in the UK, um in Britain, in England. Folks, back me up here. Can someone who is a UK listener, can you tell me please, send us an email to stonedwicheshour@gmail.com, does the Queen's English say elementary? I need to know this.

Laylla: I don't understand why we're the only ones who say it the right way.

Chelle: So, since we're laughing about all this and are finding great humor in it, I need to know, what are you smoking to get you through these horrible spellings and and and pronunciations?

Laylla: Well, today I'm smoking two different things. I'm smoking some Lemon Cherry Gelato, which I'm very much liking. This is a actual hybrid, I'd say this is a good 50% Sativa, 50% Indica.

Chelle: Citrusy? I'm assuming because of the lemon the lemon. Okay.

Laylla: Very citrusy. Yes, this does also have a little bit of that pine that you don't like, but it has a a really nice citrus, almost like that fresh green pine taste, not not a musty green, if that makes sense, more fresh.

Chelle: Not that piney gassy taste.

Laylla: No, no, this is really, really good, very tasty. And it's got a 29% THC, definitely got me nice and stony. And I'm also smoking a Jack Herer number two, which I haven't had. And uh this one's really good. This one has a little bit of lower THC, but I'm not really telling much of a difference. Supposedly, this is between 22 and 25%, but for whatever reason, maybe it's the terpene reactions, I'm not sure, but this one is also got a really nice spicy lemony taste. And even though it's it's 22 to 25% THC, it does feel very, very stony. Maybe it's because this is Sativa dominant, and that tends to hit me a little more cerebrally and make me very talkative. Maybe because of of its Sativa nature, that's kind of making me feel the THC a little harder. I'm not sure, but I've got a nice stone going on and I'm pretty excited about our stories. So, what are you smoking today, Chelle?

Chelle: Well, today I got some GMO Cookies going on.

Laylla: Oh, yummy.

Chelle: This is only a 28%, but let me tell you, it makes you hungry. As you as you noticed, I had right before we started recording, I had had a mound of spaghetti from smoking this stuff for a couple hours. So, you can't smoke this stuff when you've got no food source close to you.

Laylla: There you go. It's no fun to be stoned and hangry.

Chelle: No, no, no, no, no. You know, it kind of gets gives you that uppity, chatty, but hungry vibe. Definitely not a couch sucker, um so this is not something you're going to want to put you to sleep by no stretch of the imagination.

Laylla: Awesome. Well, good, because I've got some pretty scary stuff to tell you about today, I'm pretty excited.

Chelle: I kind of, mine's weird. I got a weird one for you today.

Laylla: Ooh. Well, mine got sparked because of a news article. Just this past week, I saw that a woman hiking in the Grand Canyon saw a demon.

Chelle: What?

Laylla: Yep.

Chelle: You know why? Because there's demon portals in the Grand Canyon, duh.

Laylla: Probably. So, this woman says that um she was hiking with her boyfriend and they were at the about the rim, on one of the rims of the trails, and they were stargazing. She says as they were getting ready to walk back the trail to go to their car, her boyfriend was overcome with dread. You know sometimes you're kind of out and all of a sudden that feeling creeps over you that something is not right? And he was really, really scared, and she said that he insisted on going back to the car as quickly as possible. And it was pitch black. She says in about a 20-minute walk, and as they're going back, that feeling that something was off just kept getting stronger and stronger. And then they started to hear something whistling.

Chelle: Whistling?

Laylla: Whistling.

Chelle: Like a person?

Laylla: She just says it was like an eerie, strange whistling coming from the woods around them.

Chelle: That's when you pick up the pace a little bit.

Laylla: That's exactly what they did. She said her boyfriend started to panic and they started to run. But he started to run in the wrong direction. It's almost like he got so scared, he just took off running, but more towards the sound and away from their car.

Chelle: Why? Why would you run towards the noise?

Laylla: She's not sure. She's just pretty sure that he was in a blind panic and she had to catch him and convince him to go the other way, back to the car. But she could tell that he was terrified. She says just as she convinced him to turn around and they headed in the correct direction, she could hear something running behind them and it was panting.

Chelle: I will say this, though. Now, you got to think of the environment there. There's a lot of shit there. They have uh what the hell are they called, mountain goats? They have bison, they have the mountain lions. I mean, when you're thinking about like animal activity, prime. Now, would I be afraid that there'd be a damn panther, no, not a panther, but that there'd be like some mountain lion coming after me? Hell yeah. Like, what made them think that it was something supernatural of sorts and not necessarily something from the animal kingdom that you know what I'm saying about the environment out there?

Laylla: I do. And you hit exactly on what some people are saying, is that there are mountain lions in that area and the running and the heavy breathing, even possibly the whistling if it was making some type of breathing noise or sometimes the vocalizations that they make could possibly sound like whistling. Even the feeling of fear has been possibly attributed to we have a we all have like an animal brain.

Chelle: Right, right.

Laylla: And like your primitive brain could have picked up on the fact that there is a very large, scary predator with big, big teeth nearby and Yeah. And that could have been what panicked him.

Chelle: I'm not trying to I'm not trying to debunk you from the get-go, I'm just anybody hearing your story, the first thought's going to be, well, there's some crazy animal kingdoms out there.

Laylla: Well, you jumped in before I got to that part. But yeah, so they got to the car and and got in the car and got away. And critics are saying that could possibly have been a mountain lion, not attack, but possibly they were being chased by a mountain lion. She insists that it was a demon because of the intense fear that he felt, the way that the the temperature dropped, and the darkness got really, really dark.

Chelle: What, did my ex-husband show up?

Laylla: Possibly. She's just pretty sure it was not a mountain lion. You know, who knows? But that's what kind of sparked my interest because in the story where they're talking about this possible demon, possible mountain lion sighting, they also mentioned that there's a Woman in White legend. So, you know I had to look in further.

Chelle: Oh, you and this Woman in White. So, how please tell me the correlation between a demon and the Woman in White because they seem like polar opposites.

Laylla: Well, it's I guess it would depend on what kind of demon and whether it's a wailing woman, like La Llorona, or a Woman in White who's just a little more tragic. These Lady in Whites kind of take one of two turns. It's either the Lady in White who usually dies in a romantic, tragic way.

Chelle: Exactly.

Laylla: And then the wailing woman, who's also a Lady in White, who usually dies in a in a more vicious way.

Chelle: And she's a little angrier and vindictive at the moment.

Laylla: Exactly, she's an angry, vindictive woman who died or killed herself, usually taking someone else with her. So, this one is kind of a combination of the two. So, I started looking into it. I didn't realize that the Grand Canyon was haunted.

Chelle: Is it really?

Laylla: Really is.

Chelle: Native American would be my guess.

Laylla: It does have a huge Native American history, obviously. It has been around for a very, very long time. The Grand Canyon is located in Arizona, United States. It's 277 miles long, 18 miles wide, and is about a mile deep in some places.

Chelle: And scorpions live there. There's lots of critters that Speaking of demons.

Laylla: And it is absolutely stunningly gorgeous. And like Chelle said, it was home to Native American people for a very, very long time. There are still some of the old stone and pueblo-type buildings in the walls, some of which is a a gift shop at this point that you can go in. That gift shop is also haunted by two little boys.

Chelle: Oh my god, I know that You know how I know the Grand Canyon's haunted? I just thought of this. This just popped in my brain. Because on an episode of The Brady Bunch, they backpacked into the Grand Canyon and had a paranormal experience. Go Brady Bunch.

Laylla: On The Brady Bunch?

Chelle: Yeah, they went in on like horses and mules. Yeah, it was a great episode. You should look it up.

Laylla: So, on the South Rim is a structure called Hopi House, which is one of the adobe-style structures that the people that lived there lived in. And it is a gift shop today. And it is haunted by two little boys that they call the brown boys.

Chelle: Aw. I always hate little boy I hate little kid spirits because it's it's so sad to me.

Laylla: Yeah. My guess is they were probably children that lived there back when it was a dwelling. After the the shop has closed at night, when they come in the next day, it's pretty common for them to find items that are broken, that look like they have been thrown from where they were. Also, electronic items will be turned off. If there's a radio playing or or lights that are on, they'll usually be turned off when the people come back in in the morning. They've been referred to mainly as doing poltergeist-type activity. So, throwing things, rearranging things, and turning electronics off is pretty much what they get up to. And it's usually only at night when there's no one there.

Chelle: Kind of like mischievous kids would do, basically.

Laylla: Exactly. Now, this is located next to another haunted place that's called El Tovar, which is a um a hotel.

Chelle: It's a current-day modern hotel or it was a hotel like way back?

Laylla: No, it's currently a hotel that you can stay in. It's on a bluff on the South Rim. When it was built in the early 1900s, it was fabulously luxurious. It was like the place to go, just a beautiful, beautiful place and the height of luxury.

Chelle: When you say it's on the rim, you're talking about the top, right? Not the bottom. It's at the top of the canyon.

Laylla: It's at the top of the canyon, yep. At the South Rim. This property is known to host quite a few different ghosts. People often see shadow people and ghosts walking up and down the stairs and down the hallways. And they know that they're ghosts because they often dressed in think of like something someone would wear to a party in the early 1900s.

Chelle: Kind of still like that that Victorian-age clothing, the long dresses, the long sleeves, the high necks.

Laylla: Exactly. You know, sometimes the flapper-type dresses and that type of thing.

Chelle: Right. Was there gold mining in that area? I don't know, I'm asking. Was there gold mining during the gold rush in that area? Because that could have contributed to some ghostly ghosties.

Laylla: I do know that a lot of cowboys and cowgirls kind of passed through there, but I don't know if they ever did any gold mining in the canyon itself. The most seen ghost is a gentleman who died before the hotel was even built. But because he died on the property and was so well known in the area, it's believed that his ghost still haunts the hotel.

Chelle: Never wanted to leave.

Laylla: Never wanted to leave. People will often see him dressed as if he's going to a party in a very fancy suit, welcoming people into the ballroom on the third floor, even though there's no party going on. In particular, there was a Christmas party, I don't know what year it was, but people often talk about this Christmas party where a very well-dressed man who was slightly old-fashioned was welcoming so many people in the front door. Um and they he they were all commenting that he must be dressed in character because he looked so old-fashioned and he was so proper when he invited everyone in.

Chelle: Wasn't a character, was it?

Laylla: They couldn't find him. He didn't exist. He he wasn't someone at the party. It was the ghost of Fred Harvey. And people will still see him occasionally, either walking the halls or inviting people into that room.

Chelle: At least he's friendly.

Laylla: All the ghosts here do seem to be very friendly.

Chelle: And they all seem ready for a party. What's up with that?

Laylla: Maybe because it was such a a fancy destination for people back in the day, and that's where all these ghosts seem to kind of come from. One couple from Los Angeles, in their room as they were walking by, they caught a reflection in the TV, but it didn't move. It looked like it was a person, and it looked just like an old man with a beard. And they have a picture of what looks like maybe an old cowboy or something, almost as if he was in the room being reflected in the television.

Chelle: That's cool, though.

Laylla: That is kind of cool.

Chelle: That That's like one of those things I wish I could see like every day.

Laylla: Yeah, me too. Other people report having their clothes tugged on in the middle of the night as if someone's trying to get their attention while they're sleeping. There's another place called Crash Canyon, and unfortunately, it gets that name because there were two crashes there. The bigger crash was in 1956. There was a mid-air collision of two airplanes, and 128 people, passengers and crew, perished in the canyon.

Chelle: Holy shit.

Laylla: And people hiking through there will report hearing the sound of metal and the sound of the crash, along with people screaming and crying out as they go through the canyon.

Chelle: Oh, oh, that's so horrible.

Laylla: That's horrible. Now, the story of the Woman in White, it's a little less well-known, and this centers around the North Rim, and she's sometimes called the Wandering Woman. She's almost always seen wearing a white dress that has little blue flowers all over it, and sometimes with a a kerchief over her hair, and she's seen pretty frequently on something called the Transept Trail. And her story is that they say that it happened in the early 1900s, and that she was there with her husband and her young son, and they were there on vacation. Her husband and son decided to hike the Transept Trail, and she stayed behind at the lodge. Unfortunately, the weather changed very quickly, as it can do sometimes in the Grand Canyon, and it started to rain, and they didn't come back from the trail.

Chelle: Oh.

Laylla: Once the weather cleared, she searched the trail relentlessly trying to find them, wandering up and down the trail looking for them.

Chelle: Is that why her ghost is called the Wandering Woman, because she's looking for them, basically?

Laylla: Possibly. Unfortunately, they were found dead at the bottom of the canyon. They had slipped off the trail and fallen to their death, and they were found holding hands. She couldn't handle it, and she continued to wander up and down the trail crying, and then, unfortunately, she went back to the lodge and took her own life. So, people will see her sometimes in the lodge, but mostly wandering up and down the trail, and they can hear her crying. In the lodge itself, it's said that if you leave a door open, she'll slam it shut.

Chelle: Oh.

Laylla: So, they usually leave the doors shut because if you leave them open, she'll just slam them shut.

Chelle: There is a thing, though, with ghosts and windows open and doors open that they don't seem to like.

Laylla: Yeah, I'm not sure what that is. On September 1st in 1932, the original lodge burnt down, and multiple people reported seeing the face of a young woman in the flames. So, that's her story. It's been over 100 years that she's been seen, uh, since the early 1900s.

Chelle: Has there been any like recent sightings that you've heard of?

Laylla: Yes.

Chelle: Because you said that place is still open, right?

Laylla: The place is still open. Even today, people will still see her in the lodge or hear her crying on the trail, and some people do report seeing a woman in a white dress with blue flowers and a scarf on her head wandering the Transept Trail. She's usually crying, but people very often, particularly at night, will hear her wailing in the distance, crying out for her lost family. So, still happening today. But yeah, lots of ghosts all over the place. I had no idea. It is, unfortunately, the site of a lot of accidents and a lot of suicides, so it does have its fair share of tragedy. But yeah, you can go and stay at any of these lodges and see the ghost or hike the trails. There's also I had to pass up a ton of missing people stories and, you know, there's a whole bunch of different legends. You know, there's a lot there.

Chelle: As much as I know that there are creepy animals there like scorpions and stuff, I've actually never been there, and I really would love to go because everything I've ever seen on it, it looks like one of the most gorgeous places on Earth.

Laylla: It is stunning. It is absolutely gorgeous, and I I highly recommend everybody should go there. Stay if you can. The wildlife, the views, there's a lot. And haunted, why not? Go see some ghosts while you're there. Do a little ghost hunting.

Chelle: No, I got a little something different for you today, my friend.

Laylla: Oh, what you got, Chelle?

Chelle: We have had a long-standing tradition here at The Stoned Witches Hour to keep it in America because, well, that's what we chose. I am veering from that today. We talked a little bit in the beginning about our friend Britney. All I can think of is Brit- Now I'm going to think Britney in accents. But Britney had a great tip for me. Britney happens to know that I am a sucker for a cryptid.

Laylla: Yes, you are, my cryptid queen.

Chelle: I am a sucker for a cryptid. Who can not love Nessie? Well, I'll have to do an episode one time on on Loch Ness Monster. That's probably my favorite non-American cryptid. And I never heard of this one, and just from a couple of things I pulled up last week, I was like, "I have to do this." So, I've done my research, Britney, and we all know I can't pronounce shit, right? Referred to the beginning of this episode. I think they're called the the Kappa, the Kappa, the Kappa. I think it's the Kappa. And the Kappa is a cryptid that actually hails from Japan.

Laylla: We covered one in the Kasha House of Kaimuki, so.

Chelle: Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.

Laylla: Covered the Kasha, which is another demon.

Chelle: Now, this is like So, if you're looking at a map of Japan, um, the Kappa actually originates from like the southern part of Japan, kind of near like Nagasaki. And I know we have some listeners in Tokyo. For all of our uh listeners in Japan, if you have had any experience with this, please, please email us because I got to know. Even though it originates from what's called the Saga region in Japan, there are stories, mythical stories about it being pretty much everywhere in Japan. And this thing, like, Laylla, this is like a cryptid lover's dream come true.

Laylla: All I remember about this cryptid is Britney said it liked cucumbers.

Chelle: It likes cucumbers, but there's something else about it that is just the funniest thing ever.

Laylla: Oh, great. Funnier than liking cucumbers? I mean, come on, a cryptid that has a taste for cucumbers, how funny is that?

Chelle: No, no, no. This This totally outdoes the cucumber thing. So, it likes cucumbers, but this son of a bitch, I don't even know if you're allowed to say that on here.

Laylla: We're allowed to say anything. We have no producers.

Chelle: This thing is a cryptid that sumo wrestles. It likes sumo wrestling.

Laylla: It's adorable. I love that.

Chelle: But it kind of looks like a Ninja Turtle.

Laylla: No way. You're shitting me. It's a Ninja Turtle cucumber-eating sumo wrestler?

Chelle: Yes.

Laylla: That's fantastic.

Chelle: How can I not-

Laylla: That is fucking fantastic. All right, you're allowed to go out of the US. That's too fun.

Chelle: First of all-

Laylla: That's way too fun.

Chelle: Britney, you made my damn day with this one because this one is his- I don't know if I want to go to Japan and meet it or if I am scared of it. I don't know. I don't know. But there is a reason to be frightened, um, actually. The Kappa, remember the movie Alien?

Laylla: Sigourney Weaver. Yeah, right. Yeah.

Chelle: You know how on Alien, the alien had like that big elongated like thing, like the head?

Laylla: That weird head thing, yeah.

Chelle: So, this has kind of something like that, and it's like it's got like a dip in it, and it almost like a dish. Looks like it's got a plate on its head.

Laylla: Okay.

Chelle: So, that thing has water in it.

Laylla: Are we talking about a bong-headed cryptid?

Chelle: No. Oh my god.

Laylla: Are you sure? Are you sure?

Chelle: So, it's got this water like this this like we'll call it a plate for lack of a better word. I'm sure there's a better description for it, but I'm going to call it a plate.

Laylla: A bong.

Chelle: So, it's got this like thing on its head, and it's filled with water, and if that runs dry, it will die.

Laylla: Oh, okay.

Chelle: A couple of stories I read said it'll die if there's no water in it, and another said it would lose its supernatural powers if the water ran dry in its head.

Laylla: It's reminding me a little bit of what are those those red cap trolls or red cap fairies? They they replenish it with blood, and they have to keep it wet with blood on their head.

Chelle: Oh, yeah.

Laylla: It's reminding me a little of that.

Chelle: So, aside from the fact that he's a cucumber-eating sumo wrestler-

Laylla: That's so cool.

Chelle: -they're not real nice. Okay.

Laylla: Oh, no.

Chelle: You want to consider this like a part land, part aquatic creature.

Laylla: Okay, makes sense. The whole Ninja Turtle look, that makes sense.

Chelle: So, that's that's how it can survive out of the water because of that quote-unquote plate of water on its head. But like I said, if it loses the water, shit gets bad. So, we love that it likes cucumbers and sumo wrestling.

Laylla: Absolutely.

Chelle: I need you to hold my beer for a second because there's one more piece to this little monster. They're often accused of of assaulting humans in the water and removing a mythical organ. Now, I got to see if I can pronounce this right, which we know I'm going to butcher this. Okay, so removing a mythical organ called the shirikodama. Laylla, do you know what a shirikodama is?

Laylla: Is that where your soul is kept or something?

Chelle: It is. But do you know where your shirikodama is located?

Laylla: Probably don't want to know. Where? In your butt?

Chelle: It's in your anus.

Laylla: It really is, though?

Chelle: It really is in your butt. So, basically, they're trying to remove your soul out your ass.

Laylla: From your butt?

Chelle: That's like the short story.

Laylla: While you're in the water?

Chelle: Yeah, the short story is they're going to pull your soul out your asshole.

Laylla: While you're swimming?

Chelle: And then try to sumo wrestle you.

Laylla: And then offer you a cucumber? Like, where are you supposed to put the cucumber?

Chelle: I don't know if you put your cucumber in your anus so that they don't steal your soul. I don't know.

Laylla: Is that to replace your shirikodama? Oh my god, I hope no one's listening to this at work.

Chelle: Let me go back to Britney. You're my hero this week. Britney is my hero for getting me onto this one.

Laylla: How do they get it out of your anus?

Chelle: They pull it out.

Laylla: Like, do they reach their whole hand up in there? Oh my goodness.

Chelle: They're fisting.

Laylla: No! No, no, no.

Chelle: They're fisting for your soul.

Laylla: No, no, no. No, that's terrible. Could they at least like do it gently?

Chelle: I don't know. I don't know.

Laylla: People would know. Obviously, you have to know if your shirikodama has been pulled out your ass because that sounds like something you would notice.

Chelle: Now, I think we need to do a whole separate episode on whether this mythical organ is really there or not because now I'm scared.

Laylla: I don't know if I want it in my butt. Why is it in my butt?

Chelle: This is why I need I I desperately need for anybody in Tokyo or anywhere in Japan, if you are a fan of shells in any way, shape, or form, I need more info because my butt hurts just thinking about this thing.

Laylla: Oh my god.

Chelle: So, now, remember I said that it was it was mainly a legend and being seen around the Saga region of Japan? The reason that the legend is kind of spread throughout all of Japan is because they believe that parents used it as a way to deter children from going swimming unattended in the rivers. Because if the children went swimming unattended in the river, then you're going to have to sumo wrestle someone so they don't steal your soul out of your butt.

Laylla: That would prevent me from swimming in a river, yes.

Chelle: They do think that other regions of Japan kind of sucked up this legend to kind of deter- Great choice of words, Chelle.

Laylla: I mean, there's better ways to get that soul out. That's all I'm saying.

Chelle: Are they fisting? Are they sucking? I need I need I need knowledge on this. Please, if you're going to be stealing someone's shirikodama, do it with consent. I mean, it's much better that way.

Chelle: I'm just saying, even if you're going to do it without consent, can you find a different entry point?

Laylla: No, no, that sounds even scarier. Like, where are they going to go through to get it then?

Chelle: I don't know. Like, I just I just got to talk to Britney again for a second. Britney, I am too high for this. This is so funny.

Laylla: So, what are people doing to prevent this anal shirikodama stealing?

Chelle: They're staying out of the water and having some cucumbers handy because that's actually what they would say. That's what That's what part of the legend was was that if you were going to be in a watery environment by yourself, have a cucumber handy because you know how like You know how if a dog is attacking you- I'm not necessarily a dog person, you know that. But you know how if a dog is attacking you, you can like throw a bone and they'll just go chase the bone.

Laylla: Yeah, distract them, yeah.

Chelle: Right. So, you know, if if the Kappa's coming, you chuck a cucumber, and it's like a dog off into the distance.

Laylla: Okay. All right. I can see that.

Chelle: But they're not entirely antagonistic to human beings.

Laylla: They just want your ass.

Chelle: We got to kind of get a a bit of of credit where credit's due.

Laylla: So, are you saying they might take me out to dinner first before they try to reach up in my butt?

Chelle: No, they actually um will assist and befriend some of the Japanese farmers, and they will perform some tasks for the humans, such as helping farmers irrigate their land.

Laylla: Mm-hmm.

Chelle: And sometimes they leave fresh fish on the banks of the rivers.

Laylla: What are the farmers doing in return for this? That's what I want to know.

Chelle: Well, yeah. But they also have a history of being good at medicine. So, we've got like doctor Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtle here. Part of the folklore with these things is that they actually taught humans, um, ancient Japanese folk, that they taught humans the art of bone setting. They also, if they have befriended a human, they will actually save that human from drowning as opposed to assisting in ripping your soul out of your asshole.

Laylla: So, they don't want you to die. They just want your butt.

Chelle: Oh, none of these none of these stories and legends have anything to do They don't kill anybody. They don't kill you. They just want They just want your soul, and they want to sumo wrestle, and they want a cucumber.

Laylla: They want a cucumber. I want to know what they're doing with the cucumber because this is just crazy.

Chelle: I don't want to know. I don't. But like I should- I want you to see this picture. Um, I'm going to share my screen with you.

Laylla: Is he farting to defeat the Kappa? Is that what's going on in this picture? That is one wrinkly old man butt.

Chelle: I don't know, or if he just shot a cucumber out of his ass. I'm not sure. I'm not sure.

Laylla: This old wrinkly behind is bent over towards the Kappa. Is the Kappa holding his nose? It's got to be a fart. I think he's-

Chelle: Well, I want you to read what the what the caption of the picture says. "Defense against Kappa: repelling with flatulence."

Laylla: It is a fart. Apparently, you can fart at them. I fart at thee, and and then they're gone.

Chelle: Like, I don't know if that that keeps your soul intact. Like, I don't know. Like, this Britney, what have you done to my brain?

Laylla: It's almost I'm pretty sure it's impossible to fart underwater. So, if you're underwater and the Kappa's going up in there to try and get your soul, you might be kind of screwed. Or you better hope you have a cucumber down there.

Chelle: I'll be honest with you. Like, I don't mean to shame anybody, but I'm pretty sure my one-year-old grandson has farted underwater. I just want to put that out there.

Laylla: I'm so proud. He'll never have to worry about Kappas. You Oh, you must be so proud.

Chelle: My little boy. Yeah, I But but isn't this just like the craziest, craziest thing?

Laylla: Pretty wonderful, actually.

Chelle: But I do I do want to just quick just share my screen with you one more time. Um, and for all of our listeners, please Google Kappa. But see how it kind of looks like a Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtle.

Laylla: It does. It does. And it's got this weird nest bowl thing on its head that keeps water in it. Almost like um Larry, Curly, and Moe, the Three Stooges. He's got like a Three Stooges haircut. And you can repel him with farting. So, yeah, I I see where that came from.

Chelle: Farting or sumo wrestling, I don't know.

Laylla: Or cucumber.

Chelle: I mean, if you're a good sumo wrestler, you can save your soul. But if you don't got what it takes, if he wins, you get the butt treatment, man.

Laylla: He's going straight for the butt every time. Well, I know some people that are going to go swimming in uh lakes and rivers a lot this year.

Chelle: I know. And and and what makes this even more hysterical is that it doesn't really deter people from going in the water, except children. What they do is um just like you would with any deity, gods or goddesses, what have you, even the fay, they do the Japanese folk will leave offerings of cucumbers along the water. Because remember I said, if you're their friend, they will help you. They will do good deeds, blah, blah, blah.

Laylla: And they won't butt rape you.

Chelle: They won't butt rape you for your soul. So, they do leave offerings of cucumbers on the riverbanks just as say we would leave offerings out for deity or or for the fay. You're laughing.

Laylla: I I I can honestly say I have never left an offering with the express purpose of keeping my anal region intact. And I'm a little disappointed that I didn't know about this sooner. And I still want to know, I think I do, what's the aftermath of this? Like, has someone ever had this happen? Do you know? Do you feel it?

Chelle: Britney suggested this. Britney, have you been to Japan? Have you have you had some the Kappa treatment? Like, what's up?

Laylla: Do you still have your soul? Inquiry minds want to know. We need to know here.

Chelle: I mean, that makes me want to just go chill with the Jersey Devil. He's not butt raping me. Lord.

Laylla: At least the Pukwudgie look kind of friendly, man.

Chelle: I'm going to I'm going to go have dinner with the Pukwudgies after this. I might go catch a movie with Sasquatch. Lord.

Laylla: I'm surprised, actually, that uh the Kappa has not made it to the United States because I'm pretty sure there's places he'd be very welcome.

Chelle: I also think that he would find a lot of of nourishment here. Are you sure? Are you sure? Well, uh So, note to self, I am never going in the water in Japan unless I have duct tape over the chocolate starfish.

Laylla: Well, I'm certainly not putting a cucumber down my bikini bottom, so I think I also am going to go the duct tape route if I ever Wow. And I've been wanting I want to go to Japan. I hear about all these onsens, you know, the the hot waters.

Laylla: Stay the fuck out of the water, man.

Chelle: Now I don't want to do it. That's scary.

Laylla: Oh my This is probably the most hysterical cryptid I have ever looked into, ever. Like ever. I I I I don't even have words for how I feel about the Kappa.

Chelle: I'm really surprised that there is not like a Fifty Shades of Grey fanfic about the Kappa already. You know, cucumbers, butt souls, you know, water sports. They're getting into all sorts of stuff here.

Laylla: I'm surprised there's not a line to meet the Kappa.

Chelle: Okay, maybe not water sports, but but there's That's, you know, that's pretty impressive. I Japan, you have outdone yourselves. I love it. This is

Laylla: Japan has beat every single cryptid that the whole of North America has. And I I'm not even just saying the United States. North America, cuz that outdoes Sasquatch and Chupacabra.

Chelle: And your best defense is a fart. I mean, farting on it is how to get it to go away. This means everybody's grandpa is safe, basically.

Laylla: I just wonder if they eat a lot of beans in Japan. I'm dying. I love it. I love it.

Chelle: That's a pretty awesome cryptid.

Laylla: I I'm to the point now where I've laughed myself into stomach pains. I'm so high I might eat another plate of spaghetti. I I think it's a wrap.

Chelle: I need to go recover from this like S&M cryptid that you've brought me. I I feel a little violated here. I need I need a few more bowls, maybe a joint. My lovely husband came in and we have 2 g of this delicious Plain Jane batter.

Laylla: Ooh, look at that. Delish.

Chelle: So, I'm going to be doing some 90% THC dabs here after we're done to wipe my memory of that cryptid. I wish to never hear its name again.

Laylla: Thanks, Britney.

Chelle: Thanks, Britney. Actually, that's so funny. I'm probably going to tell everyone.

Laylla: It is hysterical. I I like I said, my stomach hurts from laughing, and my butt hurts from clenching. Like it's just been a It's It's been a show.

Chelle: And next week is episode 69.

Laylla: Maybe we can find some more, um, you know, maybe consensual ghosts and spooks and cryptids for episode 69. Thank you so much for staying with us and pointing out all the weird things we say. Please keep the emails coming. You crack us up. We absolutely love it. Email us at thestonedwitches@gmail.com. Tell us what we say wrong, what you love, what you want to hear. If you have any suggestions, please, no more soul-out-your-butt-stealing cryptids. I think one is more than enough for any podcast.

Laylla: Just protect your bum and protect your soul and you'll be good.

Chelle: And join us next week on Wednesday at 4:20 a.m. for the next episode of The Stoned Witches Hour.

Laylla: Thanks, Britney.

Chelle: Thanks, Britney. Stay high, stay happy.

Laylla: Hey, future Laylla here. Just reminding you that if you like our show, please like, subscribe, tell a friend, and get the word out there. Leave a comment on whatever app you use to listen to podcasts. Really helps the show out, and we will smoke a kind bud in your honor.
