Laylla: Welcome to Back on the Broomstick, a modern witch's spoken word grimoire, where two witchy friends from way back are reconnecting to their pagan roots after a long period of mundanity.

Chelle: Where we're walking the path of the wise and trying out all the latest spells, rituals, and magical theory in today's witchcraft and pagan practices.

Laylla: So grab your wand and your incense, your cauldron and your crystals, and join us as we get back on the broomstick.

Chelle: Hi, and welcome to Back on the Broomstick. On this episode, we'll be talking all things Litha, the Summer Solstice. And to our Southern Hemisphere friends, it is the Winter Solstice, or Yule. Ready to talk all things summer and flowers and abundance, I'm Laylla.

Chelle: And I'm Chelle, and I'm also going to interject some of the Winter Solstice stuff into here for our, for our Southern Hemisphere friends. And we've got a little, a little myth story to tell you that'll be relative to both our Southern and Northern Hemisphere folks. So, happy Summer Solstice, happy Litha, guys. Let's do this.

Laylla: Happy Litha. Obviously, we're recording this a little bit ahead of Litha, but it's still summertime. Everything is lush and the flowers are out, and I am so stoked. Litha always reminds me of lavender. Litha and lavender go hand in hand because June is when my lavender bushes flower.

Chelle: I tried to grow lavender once. It died. Shocking.

Laylla: Well, we'll get into the plants I gave you in just a minute, which I hope you're not killing. So, I went out and I harvested a bunch of lavender today. I'll put pictures up on the Instagram for everybody, but I made a star out of lavender stalks that I'm hanging up in my little office/witchy space, and I'm letting it dry.

Chelle: And it's super cute.

Laylla: It's so cute, and it's a perfect opportunity to do a little knot magic. So, we'll talk about that later in the episode as well. But first, I saw you this past weekend. You hung out at my house and got to see my little witchy space in the back. And I sent you home with a spider plant clone from my plants, and a clone of my heartleaf philodendron plant. And those suckers are really hard to kill, so you should be all right. So, how are they doing?

Chelle: So far, so good. I actually, so first of all, I have to keep them up because my asshole cat is very into, you know, he's just a cat. So, I have them up, but today I put them down and let them be in the sun. I watered them today, and I've had them for what, two days now? So, it's been two days and I watered them because I thought, I probably didn't need to water them the day after I got home because I assumed you knew me well enough to know that you probably watered them well enough before you gave them to me.

Laylla: That's true. You know me well. That's very true. I did.

Chelle: But so far, so good. Well, I'm still trying to keep them away from the cat.

Laylla: Yeah, that's going to be the big problem is if the cat eats them. Oh.

Chelle: But so far, so good. And I, I, I had kept a spider plant alive for a good bit way back in the day. So, I think I'm up for the task. We'll see. This is me telling Devon Hunter, hold my beer.

Laylla: Hold my houseplant, Devon. She's coming through. She's got the spider plants. It's all ready.

Chelle: It's on like Donkey Kong, man. I did want to mention, you talked about something that you did today, Summer Solsticey. I did something today, too, a little bit different than you. It was clean your altar space day today. You know, I know that we do this whole spring cleaning thing, but I figure by this time of year now, it's, it's been a little bit, and it's, it's time. So, I did the Summer Solstice cleaning ritual today.

Laylla: I love that. You know, I know we harp on it a little bit, but really, every tick, as Chelle would call it, but every holiday of that wheel is an excellent time to remember to refresh your ritual space, refresh your altar space. Even if it's just one little corner of your dresser where you maybe have a crystal and a candle and a cool stick you found on your walk, clean it, refresh it, maybe add a little pine cone or a new flower or something different to represent the season. But these are great reminders to freshen up your space because that is a wonderful way to energetically and magically clear out the clutter in your own head, in your aura, in your magical self while you're cleansing physically your magical space.

Chelle: No, it was getting to the point where I'm pretty sure that that dust was getting spiritual at this point.

Laylla: Yeah, I told you, scrape it up and put it in your black salt, man. That's not dust on my windowsill. Those are magical wards. That's what. Right, right. Yeah, yeah. Magic dust. Magic dust. That's right. Good stuff here.

Chelle: So, I wanted to kind of get into the, some people call it a legend, some people call it a myth, call it what you will, the story of the Oak King and the Holly King. And that's where I was, I was hoping to encompass our Southern Hemisphere friends today because they can just kind of relate to the opposite side of the story. So, you want to delve into this Oak King, Holly King. Who are they? What do they mean? Why are they fighting? Let's talk about this.

Laylla: I really love this myth. It's come up a little bit lately because people don't think it's necessarily relevant anymore. And in some ways it isn't, but honestly, all of these myths are really just stories and messages to try and get a point across. So, the point of the Oak King and the Holly King is a solar story. It's basically dividing the year up into two halves, the light half of the year where the light is growing stronger and the days are getting longer, and the dark half of the year where the light is waning and the days start getting shorter and shorter. So, that happens, obviously, on the solstices. The Summer Solstice is the longest day and the shortest night. So, the Oak King, the young god who rules over the light half of the year, is at the height of his power. He's the flirtatious god. And you know what? You don't actually have to use god. He could be a goddess. You can say energy. You can say whatever. Basically, it's that young, flirtatious, life-giving force of the sun that's coaxing all the flowers and the leaves and the grass to grow, that's pulling people out of their houses and enticing them to make love and make babies and rejoice and have all this abundance. It's that energy. And that reaches its peak at Summer Solstice. And then, the Holly King reigns. And this, if you want to call it the god energy or the goddess or again, just energy, doesn't really matter.

Chelle: The season, the wiser, the, the experienced, the taking a step back. You know, think before you leap, whereas the Oak King is more leap before you think. So, it's kind of that older, wiser version.

Laylla: Yeah, it's that steadier, more calculated, responsible, calculated. Oh, that's a good word. I like that, calculated. Yeah, it's that very much more mature energy that you need to get, I mean, in the spring and summer, abundance is here. You don't have to worry about the future. You just pick some food off a vine and keep going, dancing way into the night. You don't have to worry about being warm because you can be hot and sweaty all night long while you're naked. It's summertime. Beach weather.

Chelle: Whereas the Holly King is thinking about we need to conserve, we need to gather, we need to be thinking ahead for those colder, darker times to sustain ourselves through that.

Laylla: Exactly. And so, they embody those types of energies. And in Wiccan tradition and in our old community's tradition, it was embodied in the young Oak King god and the wiser, sage Holly King god. What they do basically, the idea in this old story is at the height of the Oak King's power, the goddess is a little fed up with him. She's pregnant. She needs, she's over it. She needs more responsibility. She's going to have a lot of responsibilities coming up, not just needing to store food and be warm, but she's going to have a baby. So, however you choose to take that in your life, again, does not have to represent a goddess and a baby. It can represent responsibilities, your nurturing aspect. It needs to be more supported than it was in the spring and summer. So, even though the Oak King is at the height of his power, he's now realized there's nowhere to go but down. There's nowhere to go but older and wiser.

Chelle: He's reached his prime.

Laylla: So, some people have them battle and switch places now because now, after Litha, after that longest day, the days start to get shorter. And that's the dark half of the year. That's the reign of the Holly King. Sunrise on the day after the Summer Solstice, that's Holly King territory. But some people kind of have them still walking side by side a little bit as the season slowly change. But that's basically the story of it.

Chelle: And remember, for our Southern Hemisphere friends, it's the same story. You're just going to flip it to the opposite.

Laylla: Yeah, the wiser energy is giving way. You don't have to be closed up any longer. You don't have to be in your head. You need that energy, that power to go out and get your ground ready, get your seeds ready, start planting and doing that energy, that dance, that energetic growth that you really need from the Oak King.

Chelle: Now, we've actually done group rituals where we, we kind of played this out in a passion play form. Didn't they have swords, if I recall, and we did like a mock sword fight or something? I think it was with our matching swords.

Laylla: With our swords, that's right. That we had gotten for, when we did the Triple Goddess.

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: We had two people from community, I think they were both from our coven. One played the Oak King and one played the Holly King. And then, we had another coven mate play the pregnant goddess. I played Queen Mab of the Fae that was narrating the passion play. They came in with swords and did a whole actual sword fight in the middle of the circle, which was really cool. Some people didn't appreciate it because they didn't like the idea of violence being brought in. But I, I liked that we had them fight with swords, but it seemed more like a dance.

Chelle: Yeah, it definitely was.

Laylla: And at the end, even though there was a quote unquote defeat, we still had them working together and walk off together because they're two sides of the same person. Just like all this idea of Triple Goddess or Triple God or whatever, they're all different aspects of the same person. So, we talk about Oak King and Holly King, they're the same god. They're just different aspects of the same deity.

Chelle: And I think what's important is even if you don't like the myth of the Oak King and Holly King and don't like that Wiccan take on it, I think it's still important to notice that it's almost like handoff season. Think of it as handoff season. You know, you're going from footloose and fancy-free to you kind of got to pull it in, make things a little tighter. You know, kind of like summer for kids in school. You know, you're doing whatever, whenever, and then you get to that point where it's time to start getting ready to get back to school, get back to responsibility, get back to routine. So, it, it really does signify just kind of a shift, if nothing else. If, if, if the myth part ain't your bag, recognize the shift going from that light half to that dark half, or vice versa.

Laylla: I really love the dance of the seasons. I, I am so fucking into the whole cycle thing, the bigger cycles of the year, the solar cycle of the sun god, the Oak King, Holly King, the lunar cycle of the goddess changing every month. There's so much wisdom to be found in that that I can apply in my own life that makes it feel so much more magical. To know that, like you said, it's a shift, it's that handoff. Litha is the height of summer. Things are so beautiful and abundant. I cannot get enough of being outside right now and all the farmers markets and the flowers and my own ability to work in the land and go camping. I know that I've got a little bit more time for that, but this is also that clue that it's not going to last forever. You know, summer's here just for right now and enjoy it, but pretty soon you're going to have to start preparing for the cold.

Chelle: Now, that kind of segues me into, to the next point I wanted to talk about in regards to Litha. And that is the holiday that never was. This is like the most unattended, at least, at least in our local community it was.

Laylla: I know exactly what you're talking about.

Chelle: The most unattended ritual of the year. And it's not that people didn't like Litha and didn't want to celebrate it, but because it's kind of that footloose and fancy-free and in abundance and that warmth, that summer, you know, you only got so much time, people are making lots of plans, there's lots going on, it's festival season.

Laylla: Oh, yeah.

Chelle: So, this is almost like the forgotten ritual.

Laylla: Yeah, it really was. Everyone was off in their own directions going to different states.

Chelle: We'd get like 300 people for Beltane and like 21 people for Litha.

Laylla: And the worst part of it was, is I think Litha was often forgotten by the people who had called and promised to host and run the ritual.

Chelle: And come up with a ritual.

Laylla: Yeah. They would be nowhere to be found, and you would have these couple dozen people sitting around going, "So, what are we going to do?" And we'd have to come up with a ritual on the fly.

Chelle: On the spot. Right there. You know, it's, a lot of people ask, and I see this on, on the TikTok and the Facebook, "How do you do that? What, what do you do if you're in the middle of the woods and you don't have books with you and you don't have this and that with you to figure out something?"

Laylla: Right. And you didn't plan on running a ritual.

Chelle: Man, you come up with that shit on the fly. So, let's talk real quick about what do you do when you show up and there's nothing planned. I like your, your star made out of lavender idea because this was also a time when, you know, we talked about this with Beltane as well, but when we were sitting there waiting for someone to show up with an idea before we decided to, you know, take matters into our own hands and do it, we would do things like make flower crowns and even just walk in the creek or, or do a sweat lodge, you know.

Laylla: Look at the fireflies at night.

Chelle: Just all those things that are soaking up the outdoors because, at least in upstate New York, you only got a couple months to do that.

Laylla: Where it's wonderful. Right. So, you know, it was, sometimes it was just taking it all in and enjoying the fact that you have this longest day to honor that day.

Laylla: Yeah, and you know, I didn't really think of it that way, but looking back at some of those lost rituals where, where we're sitting in that long grass with the wildflowers all over the place, listening to the insects and the birds and the creek running, the night before we had all just sat around a little fire in the warmth and watched all the fireflies and the stars come out, that's celebrating Litha right there.

Chelle: Right. Right.

Laylla: It's the community, the friendship, the enjoying the slow pace and the gorgeousness that's all around us right now. So, that being said, what do you really actually fucking do if you need to do a ritual right now because the people dropped out that were supposed to run it? What do you do?

Chelle: Pull shit out of your ass, that's what you do.

Laylla: That's exactly what you do. So, I would say that's where we would fall back on tried and true. In this community, there weren't a lot of people who would have said they were Wiccan, but...

Chelle: But it was very Wiccan-based.

Laylla: It was very, a lot of the structures were what I would consider kind of Wiccan, but they're basic magical structures. So, we would fall back on a tried and true structure. In this community, we always cast a circle. We always called air for east, fire for south, water for west, and earth for north. Then, we would call in a god and a goddess. We would call in duality. Then, we would talk something about the season. We would have everybody shout something relative to the season, or we'd do a passion play to show people the meaning of the season. We would have someone just do a speech to tell you about the season. Energy raising part would come next.

Chelle: Sometimes, uh, we, we've done like a chants and drumming.

Laylla: Singing, we'd do maybe some type of spiral dance or scarf dance to get people moving to raise that energy.

Chelle: Warning about the spiral dance. Make sure that you don't have two left feet because you could fall.

Laylla: Yeah, exactly. Make sure you have a good leader and a good ender. That stuff gets confusing, man.

Chelle: It does. It does.

Laylla: But even if it doesn't go well, you can still use it to raise energy. So, you'd raise the energy, then you would need someone to direct that energy to a purpose. Then, we'd ground the energy and close everything up. That was the basic ritual format. If you had that and you could get some volunteers, then all you needed to know were some correspondences for the season and the story of the season. Like, what's the meaning behind the holiday?

Chelle: Now, that's all fun and good when you have a group. What if I am a lone person with no tribe? You know, we have a lot of listeners that don't have the opportunity to have a group of people, and they are all by their lonesomes thinking, "What the hell do I do for Litha because it's just me and I don't believe in my abilities?" To that I say phooey. But if you are a singular person who does not have a group to celebrate with, you know, you can kind of, kind of embody some of those same concepts. I mean, obviously, you're not going to be able to have a big, huge chanting and drumming circle, but you by all means can chant. Um, if you have a drum, use it. Didn't we at one ritual have someone like beating on the bottom of a coffee can? Like, if you don't have a drum, make do with what you got. A lot of these concepts, I think, you can still kind of utilize as a singular person trying to celebrate or do a ritual. You don't have to have a group of people or a tribe to be able to celebrate. It's not like, "Well, I don't have anybody to do ritual with, so I might as well not." Phooey to that.

Laylla: Yep. And the other good thing about the structure that we had was that it makes the magic easier to flow. And the way that you can do that by yourself or one or two other people is have things that you always do when you're doing a ritual. You don't have to have that full structure like we did in our community. But now, for Chelle and I, doing those things immediately puts us into a magical mindset.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: You cast circle, I can feel that energy move because I'm so used to it.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: So, do things that you're used to. Find a couple different rituals, like maybe you always sit down and spread an altar cloth and lay out your tools. You know, do it the same way every time on the holidays, and that becomes magical in and of itself. Your brain, your body will start to immediately align to that magical self as soon as you do these ritual things. So, do the full ritual like we did in our community, or find your own ritual things to make your magic yours. And that's how you can do it yourself every single time, especially if you create habits and create magical rituals around the holidays that will serve you really well to be able to raise that magic more easily at the next holiday.

Chelle: Now, one little crafty thing that this is a good time of year to do, suncatchers. Suncatchers are so cute. Back in the '80s, remember you could get those things and like, they had these little like, they were like beads and you'd like put them in...

Laylla: Melt them in the oven.

Chelle: Yeah, you put them in the metal frame, melt them in the oven. I used to love those things so much.

Chelle: Me too.

Laylla: But one idea I had seen was to take those little clear stones, I think you can get them for like fish tanks or something. They have a flat bottom and they're rounded on the other side. And glue them into a metal frame, like hot glue them together into a metal frame, and make a pretty suncatcher out of that. Kind of, I don't want to say harness that sun energy, but yeah, you know, harness it right into your space. And they're really easy to make. They're super cute. You really can't mess up a suncatcher no matter how you do it.

Chelle: I don't know. You give me a hot glue gun, I can mess shit up.

Laylla: Well, I've also seen people kind of do it more like a dreamcatcher, and in making a dreamcatcher, kind of weaving in either little stones or little beads to kind of reflect that sun within the sun, within the dreamcatcher. So there are a lot of cute little crafts you can do, you know, like making the lavender stars or making flower crowns or things of that nature. All fun stuff that you can do, but big fan of suncatchers this time of year.

Chelle: The idea is that the sun is at the height of its power, so we really want to honor that energy, that life-giving force that's bringing all this abundance in our lives. So any seeds that you planted physically or magically back in the earlier part of the wheel of the year...

Laylla: ...could be sprouting.

Chelle: Yeah, now is the time to check in with those. Are they growing well? Have you had some of your first fruits from this? You know, are you starting to see where it's going and kind of assess that magically? Maybe part of your ritual can be redirecting that energy, that growth, that abundance energy towards what you want.

Laylla: Or are those seeds withering and you need to put more care and attention into them? Do you need to be more focused, be more cognizant of your magic?

Chelle: Yeah, so Laylla's idea of gluing these clear stones together, these clear glass stones or crystals, anything that catches the sun like that, you can charge them. Those little flat glass beads are great to charge solar energy into and put that on your altar. If you're creating something, like when I created this lavender star, I used not magic, I used the colors of the season. I have yellow ribbon that I use to represent the sun. You can use yellow, green, light blue, orange, anything that says sun and summertime to you. So as I was bundling these lavender stems up, each knot I would state an intention and I would put my energy into that knot. So as this star dries, it has that energy and it kind of infuses the area in my space with the energy that I put into it. That's a very simple spell. And herbs, this time of year, collecting herbs, eating some of the herbs or the vegetables from your garden or go to a farmer's market or something and get fresh herbs that are full of solar energy, obviously, they have sucked in all the sun that they can get. So that's a great way to get that sun's energy as well. Infusions, I've seen some really good recipes for oil infusions that are super easy that will give you, again, the solar energy. Tea, we just talked about sun tea not too long ago. Set your tea outside. Laylla's got all sorts of cool tea blends that you can put into a sun tea mixture. It's just like doing moon water, but you're doing solar water with your herbs in it, and then you're going to drink it and bring that energy directly into you. So do you have any recipes for us, Laylla?

Laylla: I'm going to throw this, this is, this is actually our special blend, the Besom Calling Back on the Broomstick blend.

Chelle: So yummy.

Laylla: Right? Actually makes a fabulous sun tea. It has got mullein and clove and orange peel and rose hips with black tea in it. Put them in either a, a loose leaf tea bag or if you have a strainer, and let that sit out in the sun for a few hours and then strain out the herbs. Delish. Delish.

Chelle: This is definitely one to add a little bit of lemon and a little bit of honey into, not just because I love it...

Laylla: ...but because of allergy season.

Chelle: ...and citrus fruits are wonderful representations of solar energy. And so is honey. Honey is a fabulous representation. I think I posted not too long ago a lavender honey infusion, which is a wonderful thing to do around the Summer Solstice so that you can, again, have that Litha energy, that abundance. What better to do than to infuse an oil with some of your herbs or infuse some lavender honey and then put a drop or two of that in your money bowl or in your abundance spell jar? It's just so good for bringing that solar powerful energy into your spell working.

Laylla: Another way you can use citrus fruits as part of your altar or ritual space is when you are doing any sort of ritual for Litha or the solstice, you can hollow out a little bit of an orange, put your candle in that, put a white candle in it, and use it as your candle holder.

Chelle: I love those. For whatever reason, it just seems to make that citrus smell...

Laylla: ...fabulous.

Chelle: ...permeate everything. Oh my gosh, I love that so much.

Laylla: So that's, that's another cute, fun idea. But this is also, and I know you know this, and you said that when we were doing the passion plays, you talked about portraying Queen Mab. Litha is said to be the night when fairies will be more abundant coming out into, I don't want to say into the open, but into the open, for lack of a better way to say it, and play tricks on humans. The fairies do see it as a battle of light and dark, so they do kind of get more mischievous. One of my favorite movies, and I can't remember what year this came out, it had to be 1990-something, A Midsummer Night's Dream.

Chelle: Ah, yes, the William Shakespeare play.

Laylla: Yeah, like Kevin Kline starred in it. Like I said, it had to be early '90s. But that movie almost is like the embodiment of Litha to me. I don't know why, but it, it, from the fairy aspect.

Chelle: From all of it, the, the lushness of it, the, the fireflies and the fairies and the sex in the woods and the romance and it's just a lush...

Laylla: ...kind of like that dreamy summer night.

Chelle: ...dreamy summer night. Yeah.

Laylla: Because, because, I mean, all the times we went camping for ritual for Litha, that's kind of what it reminds me of, a dreamy summer night.

Chelle: Just like when we were talking about coming into these Lithas, these lost holidays. That really embodies Litha to me, the long grass, the fireflies, the laughter heard in the darkness next to a campfire.

Laylla: Falling asleep to crickets.

Chelle: Falling asleep to crickets with the creek babbling right next to you, you know, drumming off in the distance. That kind of soft, summer, warm abundance is really Litha.

Laylla: That's Litha, yeah.

Chelle: If all we did was get together, have a feast, have a little fire, and hang out...

Laylla: ...and camp in the woods, that would be Litha.

Chelle: That would have been ritual enough. Yeah, that's magic enough. So if you just are able to have a barbecue with, with your besties, with your family, with anybody, that is a beautiful way to celebrate Litha. How about tarot cards? Do you have any tarot things that you like to do in the summertime? You know, lately I've been doing like a one or a three-card pull every night, not as a divinatory thing, although it sometimes it ends up that way. It's more of a, a meditation, like an exercise of me with the cards. Why don't I do two cards? It's always one or three. What's up with that?

Laylla: Cuz you're weird.

Chelle: Yeah, I guess so. But I'm thinking about, I kind of want to change it up. I don't know if it's because of the season or, or what, but I'm feeling like I want to do something a little different. I might want to start doing very small layouts, like, like not just one or three cards, but like a small...

Laylla: ...spread.

Chelle: ...like a small spread. Yeah, yeah. And do something like that instead. Do you have any small spreads that you like that you could recommend?

Laylla: Actually, you want to be outside and you want to be enjoying the energy of the sun. So I would tend to do spreads more not at this time of year.

Chelle: Just keep it to the one, like not even the three, just do the one card and go.

Laylla: One to three, three-card spread limit at this time of year.

Chelle: Okay, so you're saying to keep the card pull simple and get outside and enjoy the season. I, I get it. I totally agree. So if you don't particularly like doing a full spread this time of year, what about choosing a card deliberately and with intention? Something that represents the season. Like if you're going to save time and just pull one card to meditate on, which card would you use? What would you pick for Litha or the Summer Solstice? And, and you can't say the Sun card because that's way too obvious.

Laylla: Well, you know, if you, if you like darker decks, that doesn't mean you can't utilize those darker decks during this time of year. You know, your Sun card might be morbid as hell. But that's okay.

Chelle: That is okay. Let's see, other cards I would probably, like the Empress, that would be a good card for now. Fertility, abundance, you know, it's the, like the pregnant goddess she looks like sometimes.

Laylla: I think the World is always good for sabbats and holidays. The World is relevant, in my opinion, on all eight sabbats. So that's kind of a good card to meditate with, no matter if it's Litha or, or what.

Chelle: I would say I like the cups, the suit of cups for this time of year.

Laylla: Because it is kind of that lovey, emotional...

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: ...taking it all in, absorbing.

Chelle: I like the Nine of Cups for this because it's, it's not quite that full abundance of, you know, family and everything, but it's getting there. And it's kind of like wishes come true.

Laylla: Maybe it should be a four-card spread instead.

Chelle: Ooh, talk to me. Tell me about the four.

Laylla: Because of the cross-quarter thing. So if you look at the cross-quarter thing almost like an X, there's four spots.

Chelle: So you're saying take the, like the solstices and the equinoxes as each part of this circle.

Laylla: Correct.

Chelle: And so you're saying that because there's four of those, place four cards because we're in one of them, we're in a solstice.

Laylla: Correct. See folks, this is how spreads get born.

Chelle: So what, what is each card representative of that, of that notch on the wheel of the winter solstice, summer solstice, spring equinox, fall equinox?

Laylla: So if you're, if you're here, if you're here at Litha, then you would go back and say, what seeds did I plant at the equinox? Where am I at with them now? What do I need to do to get to the next equinox to then come to fulfillment at the next solstice? Do you see what I'm saying?

Chelle: I like it. I like it.

Laylla: Like a round robin thing. Like, what have I done? Where am I at? What is my next steps? And then what do I have to do to complete? You know what I'm saying?

Chelle: I do. And I'm going to say add a fifth card in the center. That's the you, that's the, where am I at like right this second, or who am I, who am I in this wheel?

Laylla: Like a significator card?

Chelle: Like a significator, but let it be random. So let that card be random. Either place that card first and then place the other four, or place that card last.

Laylla: Or what I've also done, if I'm shuffling and one card like jumps out of the deck, then that usually will be my significator.

Chelle: Make that the significator. So don't, don't have it be a significator you choose ahead of time. Let the cards decide what your significator is going to be. And that will be, who do you need to be to get through this cycle?

Laylla: Because if you look at it based on the calendar year, it would be that whole, you know, what are the seeds I planted at Ostara versus where am I at at Litha, where am I going to be at Mabon, and then how do I cap it all off at Yule?

Chelle: I love this. So it's the five-card, five-card solar spread? Five-card quarters of the year spread? I don't know. We'll work shop that. We'll think about that. We'll, we'll work on it.

Laylla: We'll work on that.

Chelle: But, but I like that idea though, kind of to, to hit those solstices and equinoxes as touching points on where you're at with, with the seeds you planted.

Laylla: Well, there you go. I'm going to stick with one card for my nightly tarot journaling. But for Litha, I'm going to do...

Chelle: ...a five-card spread.

Laylla: I love it. I love it a lot, actually. I'm going to do it. I'll, I'll post a picture.

Chelle: See, you can, you can, somehow, some way, you can put tarot into everything.

Laylla: I know. It's, it's such a versatile tool. It really is.

Chelle: Where there's a will, there's a way.

Laylla: There's a tarot spread.

Chelle: Right?

Laylla: If not, we'll come up with one.

Chelle: We'll make one up if there isn't already. And that's what you can do with your rituals. You know the correspondences. You know what says summer to you. Think back when summer stretched out ahead of you with nothing to do but play and have a wonderful time. Think of that energy, that, you know the, the grasshopper and the ant story where the grasshopper's all singing and playing and having a wonderful time.

Laylla: Uh-huh. Uh-huh.

Chelle: You're that guy. Be that guy. Just eat all the good foods and, and celebrate abundance and happiness. Celebrate going out and doing all these fabulous things and, and just feeling the sun on your skin, you know. Whatever says that to you, put that in your ritual. Put that in how you want to celebrate the season.

Laylla: But I like that we, we kind of talked this out and came up with this, um, while, while we were recording because, A, it gives people a little insight into how we'd come up with this shit.

Chelle: Uh-huh.

Laylla: And, and, B, it, it's a proven point to you that you can come up with stuff on the fly and it's okay. And if it works for you, who gives a shit what is in a book you read? This is a classic example of Laylla and I taking two minutes talking something out, and the next thing you know, we've come up with something fabulous. You too can do the same thing. So it's not about necessarily what you're seeing online and stuff. It's what feels right to you. What energies, in what direction do you want to go with and work with at that particular time? You know, get the, the basics down about the solstice and Litha, you know, sun energy and, you know, kind of that changing of the guard thing, and then mold it into what works for you and what's meaningful for you.

Chelle: And I'm going to take that one step further and say, not only what's meaningful to you, but what fits in the area that you're in.

Laylla: True.

Chelle: Like right now, I'm living in North Central PA and I'm surrounded by farms and lushness and life.

Laylla: And pollen.

Chelle: And pollen.

Laylla: Lots of pollen.

Chelle: Oh, I'm celebrating the abundance of farm stands and food and getting my toes in the dirt and harvesting lavender out of my garden. Looks different for Laylla. Laylla is on the coast. She's by the ocean. The weather can change in a heartbeat. She's in the middle of downtown Salem.

Laylla: But it's also beach season.

Chelle: Right. It's, so it's hot sidewalks and being in the city, but it's also being at the beach, in the breeze, and with the water. That looks different from where I'm at. When I lived in Southern California, it was brown and it was sand and it was the glory of Joshua Tree and the amazingness of life in this heat. So celebrate summer how it looks where you're at.

Laylla: Right.

Chelle: And you can feel that better by connecting with the land and the, the energies around you that scream summer where you're living. And okay, if you're a transplant, you know, you're in the desert in Southern California and you're missing the green of your homeland of upstate New York, you can go in a little space that maybe has a lot more greenery in it and celebrate that way to get yourself in the magical space. But if you can connect with your local area, that's going to take your magic to the next level and it's going to make you feel that much more connected to it.

Laylla: Absolutely.

Chelle: So get connected with your local area, get connected with yourself, make yourself some tea.

Laylla: Go to a farmer's market.

Chelle: Celebrate abundance.

Laylla: Camp if you can.

Chelle: Oh, we need to go camping, Laylla.

Laylla: We do.

Chelle: I miss it so much.

Laylla: 'Tis the season.

Chelle: 'Tis the season. I'm looking forward to it. So we are going to actually be at a few different things. We will be in New York City, July 6th, for Witches Fest...

Laylla: New York City!

Chelle: ...USA. We are both presenting there, which is going to be a great time. Check them out online. I am going to be at Brushwood Folklore Center for both their Sankofa and Sirius Rising festivals doing presentations both weeks.

Laylla: And then we're going to come back together and we will be in Central New York, in the Syracuse area, in September, mid-September, for the Central New York Pagan Pride Day. So we have some upcoming in-person sightings. We want to see you. If you can make your way, I feel like the three things we just said are all in New York State, but here we are. If you can, if you can come and see us live and in person... July 6th, Laylla and I will both be in New York City for Witches Fest. Be there. And what are the dates that you're going to be at the Brushwood Folklore Center?

Chelle: I will be at Brushwood Folklore Center for Sankofa, which is July 17th through the 21st, and then Sirius Rising, which is July 22nd through the 28th.

Laylla: And, and then our workshop presentation at the Central New York Pagan Pride Day, that will be on September 21st. So if you are in the area, we would love to see you. Definitely, if you do come to any of these events, tell us. Say hey. We want to see listener sightings. We want to say hey to you in person. So definitely say hi if you do happen to come. We will see you there, hopefully. Hope you all enjoy your abundant, wonderful Litha and having a phenomenal summer or, you know, winter if you're in the Southern Hemisphere. Happy Yule, although I'm glad it's you and not me.

Chelle: Right? Thank you all so much. We will see you next week for Back on the Broomstick. Stay wise, stay wicked.

Laylla: Happy Litha, everybody. Keep it witchy.
