It's witchcraft.

Hey, it's 4:20 a.m. Hi and welcome to episode 71 of the Stoned Witches Hour. On this podcast, two best friends separated by way too many miles get together to tell each other ghoulish, creepy tales from across the USA while smoking large amounts of Mary Jane. We're smoking the Mary Jane today. while smoking the Mary Jane, just like they used to back in their old dumpy apartment. Bringing you some creepy stories of a haunted campground, I'm Laylla.

And I'm talking about a haunted castle and some aliens today. I'm Chelle.

Well, you do love castles and aliens, so I guess I shouldn't be surprised.

The only thing that would round this off is if freaking Bigfoot checked into the castle. I'd be set. I'd be set.

I've got a lady in white, but no Bigfoot at my haunted campground.

Okay, listeners, we're all sitting here shocked. I know we're shocked. Laylla's got a lady in white. Look at the shock on my face. The only thing The only thing that's going to shock me and the listeners even more is if you say there's orbs.

Well, yeah, there's some orbs there.

Well, why don't we start with the down and dirty fun stuff? I hear you puffing on a water pipe. What do you got today?

I have got good news, bad news for you today.

Oh no, is it a Jack Herer that sucks?

No, this isn't OG. This is like This is called Grandfather OG, and it is really good. It's little buds, but they're sticky, they're dense, they're purple, they're very, very crystally. And No, no, there's some really good news still coming. It comes in at 40% THC.

What the blankety blank?

Now here comes the bad news.

Okay, no, I was waiting for it.

Yeah, I'm pretty sure it's bullshit. Oh.

And I'm almost positive it's bullshit because, I don't know, I'm pretty high, but I wouldn't say I'm 40% THC high. And there are some studies out there, including one that was just in Forbes magazine a few years ago, that said that science reveals cannabis industry's greatest lie.

There's only one? Right?

So, April of this year, um, in the Washington Post, they said the weed you bought might not be as potent as promised, a study finds. And Colorado researchers took a whole bunch of cannabis and tested it and compared it to the labels and found that on average, the THC levels of everything they tested was 23% lower than what was reported on the label.

So if it says it's 23%, then that means it's zero?

Well, no, it's 23% lower than that 23%. So it would be like 5%-ish lower than that.

Liars! Their pants are on fire.

Some of these cultivars came in at a whopping 40% to 50% lower than what the label said.

See, that just pisses me off. And that's why if you're going to If you're going to make us have this stuff regulated and you're going to make us go through the whole process of taxes, could at least be consistent, right, and and truthful? If I pay taxes, can my taxes pay for the truth?

That's a damn good point. If they're going to go through all of this trouble, they should label it correctly. And I think that the reason that they're not is money, obviously.

Because if I misrepresented something, I'd sure as hell get in trouble for it.

Because everybody reaches for the high-level THC. Well, duh. Well, duh. Who doesn't, right, Laylla?

Well, no, that's true. I don't. I like the tasty ones. I do tend to gear toward the higher THC. I'm just as guilty, but it's not the first thing I look for. However, just recently at uh The Green Chamber near Riverside, California, this 40% THC is on the shelves. Now, I like this company. This place is a good place to go. You know, I'm kind of wondering where it got tested and why they think it's 40% THC.

Yeah, but if they're buying that third party, they're just buying what they're told to, so it can't necessarily be their fault.

Exactly. In California and in a lot of states, it's not seed-to-sale like it is in Massachusetts. Right. And so it could come from anywhere. Now, while 40% sounds really good, Anthony DeMeo from Oaksterdam University, he says it's just not feasible. It's probably not ever going to happen. He's fairly certain that because of the way cannabis is made up, that to have anything 45% or above THC is just not really going to be possible. Is that true or not? I don't know. Nowadays, these percentages seem to keep going up and up with no end in sight. And as long as the consumer is going to reach for that first, they're going to be padding these labels with higher and higher fake percentages.

Yeah, sure.

So, yeah, this THC When I said, "Hey, what have you got that's the highest THC? What have you got that's going to hit me right upside the head?" this is the one that they handed out. So, and so far, it's definitely stony. Is it 40% stony? I don't know.

Well, that's kind of a downer. I'm not going to lie.

It is. But we've suspected for a minute that they've been padding these percentages.

Well, yeah. Oh, absolutely. Absolutely, because, you know, people like me are going to go for what is higher automatically, and they're just kind of duping duping us.

How is the average consumer supposed to know? You trust that it says right on the label, "lab tested." You're going to believe it. And if they're lying or if they're using faulty measurements, then just like you said, people are being conned out of their hard-earned money because they're paying extra top-shelf dollar for these higher THCs. We've been pleasantly surprised when I've gotten you to buy mid-range or lower, and you've found that they packed just as good or almost as good of a punch as some of the quite a bit more expensive top-shelf. And I think, you know, label padding is probably the reason why.

Now, this week what I've got, this I know we talked about this before because this is like my second go-round with this, but this is that uh Blue Dream number two.

Mhm.

I like it. It's not too shabs.

Blue Dreams are usually pretty good. They're in the sweets and dreams category, very tasty typically.

It says my total cannabinoids are 28.8. I'm feeling it. I'm liking it. I'm getting what I paid for. That's the thing. As long as I'm getting what I paid for, I'm good. You know, if you're going to sell me dirt weed, at least charge me dirt weed prices, okay? Don't sell me top-notch and then I'm smoking dirt weed. Then I'm pissed. This, totally getting what I'm paying for. Happy, love it, good stuff, good stuff. A little more leafy than I'm used to, especially for store-bought. Store-bought is never leafy, I thought.

Is this a sun-grown? Because sometimes if it's sun-grown or outdoor-grown, sometimes it'll have a looser bud structure and it'll tend to have

It does have a loose It does have a looser bud structure, yes.

I'm wondering if that is outdoor or sun-grown. Do they have to tell you that? Is that going to be on my label?

They usually would. It can be a selling point for some people. Some people prefer the outdoor, sun-grown. But, you know, again, it will have slightly different bud structure.

The only thing I could think of is if that's why it's the Blue Dream number two. Maybe number one was indoor, two is outdoor, three is hydro. Who knows?

If you're lucky enough to have a good budtender, and Chelle very often in Massachusetts does, you can ask. Ask where it was grown. Ask how it was grown. Ask if they like it. Ask what their favorite is. If they're a good budtender, they will have tried several of Well, if it's a good place, they will have let their budtenders try their product, and they should know what's tasty, what's head high, what's body high, you know. Ask questions.

I'm definitely going to have to check this out because, um, this was, let's see, this was not grown by the store. It is third-party weed, but it does have a website that I will have to look up.

I love that. It's funny that cannabis makes us label readers. But yeah, no, super happy with it. Again, one of my cheaper ones. I think I got this for like 150 an ounce after taxes, which, hey, if you're from around here, you know that's a hell of a deal. Yeah, I'm loving it. But still, as much as it's more airy than those super dense ones, um, I'm still grinding it.

Seems to be the way.

I have finally, I think, gotten on the grinding bandwagon. Uh, you know I fought it. I fought it for years. And then a friend got pissed off at me and bought me a grinder. So now I feel like if I don't use the grinder, that I'm wasting it. And you know me, waste not, want not, man. So like I feel like if I just am stuff and shove, that I'm wasting it.

I find my partner, my husband, my sweet love, is still a stuffer and shover.

A stuffer. I love him. I love him.

It's the one place where I get irritated with him. I almost every single time want to unpack the bowl, grind it, and put it back in. You've done that to me before. You've done that to me before. I'm just saying. It doesn't burn as good. It just doesn't.

Well, now I'm kind of starting to see your point. Fine, you were right, whatever. I am liking it ground. I am liking it ground.

Me too. Welcome to the ground side, Chelle, to the good burn side.

Here's the bitch of it, though. I have found out that I've actually had to clean the grinder. You know how I buy that cleaner? What the hell is it called? Um, You and your fancy cleaner. I still use alcohol and salt. Um, Grunge Off, that's what it is. My Grunge Off, I have to actually take a freaking Q-tip and clean that outside part of the grinder because it'll start getting stuck with resin and then I can't twist it to grind. And I'm like, "This is bullshit."

Okay. Go to your local craft store. Okay. Go to the section where they have their clay tools, like for Are you talking like like a AC Moore, Michaels type store? Like that kind of craft store? Okay. Okay. Any craft store. If they have a section where where you can buy like modeling clay tools, Uh-huh. they will have little teeny tiny metal like scoopers and picks and scrapes that are teeny tiny that are made for making marks in clay. Uh-huh. You can get one that has just the right point. You can get a whole set of them, and then use that to clean out the cracks and crevices of your grinder. Oh, no shit. Smoke that shit. Put it on a joint, put it on the top of your bowl, but please don't waste it with Grunge Off. Use a little tiny tool and get all those because that's the good stuff right there.

If you saw how green that water was when I put it in the Grunge Off, you would have cried your eyes out.

You're hurting my heart, Chelle. You're I did take all the kief out of the bottom, though. I wasn't I wasn't that high. I wasn't high enough to forget that, I mean, still. But yeah, I mean, I've been using a dentist tool back like, I don't know, probably 30 years ago. You probably remember that dentist tool. I still have that that metal dentist tool from back in the day that I like I'll scrape my my bowl with. But yeah, maybe getting some of those little ones for the for the grinder might Yeah, they're less They come in all sorts of different shapes. I like them better than the dental tools because dental tools are pokey. They're sharp and pointy. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, these will have like scoops and shovels and little wedge shapes and all sorts of little shapes. You can find one that works perfectly for your for your tool.

Nice. I'll have to go to the craft store.

Any excuse to go to the craft store, I mean, really.

I know. Uh, I need to get a charge card there.

So other than crafting, well, and smoking, the other thing we like to do over the summer is camping.

Camping. I love camping.

And what better than to tell ghost stories around a campfire, right?

Well, I'm one-upping you here.

What are you doing?

You know I always try to do that.

So, I've got a story for you. Actually, I kind of got two stories, but one of them we're going to save to the end because it's it's a current news event. But my ghosty story this time, it isn't necessarily about camping per se, but it's it it ties into my yearly family camping trip.

I love it. All right. Well, let's hear your camping or your tie-in to your camping trip, and then I'll tell you an actual campground haunted story.

Okay. I mean, how this really It doesn't really tie into camping per se, but how it does how it does tie into camping is every year my whole life, my my mother's side of the family, we vacation camping. We go camping. It's what we love. We all love it. We prefer it over anything else. But it's a particular place where we go camping. We go camping up at the St. Lawrence River up at the Thousand Islands region, which is a big seaway river that borders New York and Canada. It feeds from the Atlantic Ocean to Lake Ontario. And where we stay in the Thousand Islands region is kind of at the mouth of Lake Ontario. So, you know, camped up there every year since I was like four months old. Actually, I'm leaving in a month to go. I can't wait. That kind of sparked me to come up with this particular story because I was thinking about my upcoming trip. So it's funny that you brought up camping because, again, we totally did not plan that ahead of time. But my my yearly family camping trip is what sparked me to do this story. So up in the Thousand Islands region, um, if you've been there, if you're familiar, on the New York border with Canada, there is a beautiful, beautiful castle on an island called Boldt Castle. The island is called Heart Island. Heart of that is because the original owner of the island, which we'll get into in a few minutes, kind of had the physical shape of the island reworked into a heart shape. So if you actually see aerial pictures of Heart Island, it is in the shape of a heart.

You've told me about Boldt Castle a million years ago when we Since we met. Since we've met. I have heard some of these stories, so I'm really looking forward to this.

I can't even start with the beauty of this place. Now, oh, you know, I got to I got to look up the specifics, but I want to say it's a hundred It's a six-story, 120-room castle. There's tunnels That's a legit castle. It's a legit castle. 120 rooms, I mean, imagine having to clean that? No. I'd be pissed.

You'd need an army.

But on the on the island as well as the six-story, 120-room castle, there are tunnels, there is a powerhouse, Italian gardens, a drawbridge. There is a tower It It's a mini They call it a tower. It's really a mini castle. It's called the Alster Tower or the Children's Playhouse, which is a mini castle.

Their playhouse was a mini castle?

You don't even know, man. I love this place. I've visited this place a thousand times. I'll be back in a month, and I can't even wait. And it's like even though I've been there a thousand times, I'll still go there every year. You know, funny tidbit of a story, you know, sometimes people get married and divorced. It happens. One of the times I got married, um, I actually got married at this place. So this is a a beautiful stone castle. I don't know how else to describe it. So this was built at the turn of the the century back in like the early, early 1900s. I want to say that construction began in like 1901, so literally the beginning of the 1900s. And there was a millionaire proprietor, uh, named George C. Boldt. He was actually one of the head workers at the Waldorf Astoria Hotel in New York City. Um, he was like the hotel manager type person, the top dog at the hotel, so to decide. So this guy was loaded. 1900 loaded. So he built this castle right off the I don't want to say the coast. I don't know if that's the right word because it's a river technically. Um, but on a on island right off of Alexandria Bay.

Do you know how big the island is? I know it's pretty small. Do you know how many acres the island is?

I was just going to say if I had to gauge it, um, I'll have to look up the exact acreage. But if I had to gauge it just on my wherewithal of the world, I would call it probably 7 to 10.

So very small.

Very small.

Barely big enough to hold this ginormous castle and and like some grounds around it, right?

But it's gorgeous. It's gorgeous. So, you know, as a as a typical man of his financial stature back in those days, he was in love with his wife more than anything in the whole wide world. He built this actually for his wife.

That sounds so romantic, an island shaped like a heart with a literal castle on it built for his wife. That's fucking romantic.

It is. And, you know, they had some children, so the children's playhouse or the the mini castle was meant for the children. There was actually There actually is, and you can visit it, uh, you can look at it, obviously you can't use it, but there's a bowling alley in the basement of the children's castle.

Wow.

What happened was, so he builds this His wife's name was Louise. Um, so he builds this as like a project of love. It did have a name prior to Heart Island, and I and I can't recall. This has been ingrained in like my family history knowing this, and I can't recall it for the life of me. But it was George Boldt, um, in 1900 who renamed it Heart Island after the reshaping. And what he did was, have you ever seen the Rhineland castles in Germany?

Yeah, with like all the towers and the cone-shaped tops and stuff.

Well, George was German, and so he kind of visually, they're supposed to look like those those Rhineland castles from like his homeland.

So like a replica from his childhood.

Right, right. The castle itself is 60,000 square feet.

Damn, that is a big house.

Well, I'm assuming because it's six floors that it's, you know, 10,000 a floor, ultimately. Um, and then I would say probably about 1,000 yards off of the northeast side of the island is a yacht island. There's an island that holds the yacht house. So they do have a yacht house on a separate island, I'd say about 1,000 yards away-ish.

A house for their yacht?

I didn't sit there and measure it, but we're estimating here.

Is a yacht house like a house for their yacht?

Yeah. Rich people. Rich people problems. Like total rich people problems. Because back in that, you know, back in the 1900s, people had had started making the Thousand Islands region, it was becoming a booming vacation area, and being right on the Canadian border, and it's gorgeous in the summer. You know, you'd think, "Oh, Northern New York, uh, chilly, cold." Let me tell you, July and August, primo, best place to be. So it was act- It was actively becoming a vacation area when he was building this castle. So, unfortunately, Louise in 1905, or 1904, excuse me, uh, 1904, Louise died suddenly. Like I said, he began construction in 1900, 1901, and his intention was was to gift her the castle on Valentine's Day of 1905.

Oh, no. Oh, damn.

Right. So, in 1904, Louise died suddenly.

Oh, that's tragic.

Right. So, now keep in mind, she would go there and they would visit, they would take the kids there, and they would stay in the Alster Tower, the children's playhouse, while the main castle was being built. So she did get to enjoy the island, but she never got to see the completed castle. And when she died, George Boldt was so devastated, he immediately sent a telegram to the island to all of the workers, there was over 300 workers on the island, and told them to stop construction immediately.

Oh, wow.

And he never set foot on the island again.

Oh, that is so sad.

Right. So for 73 years, the castle sat there, empty, open to the elements, open to vandals. People would go over there. It was just left. It was literally left. And then in 1977, the Thousand Islands Bridge Authority bought the island and the castle for $1 with the agreement that all of the money that they made from tourism would go into restoring the castle.

Oh, that's a good deal.

Right. So now, you know, they've been restoring it. Like I said, I've been going there my whole life. When I was a kid, you would go there, and it was literally just a shell of a castle. There was graffiti everywhere. It was just stone walls. There was no windows. It was just open. And now, you know, over the years, they've put windows in, they've done the roof, they've completely finished the first and second floors. They're working on the third floor. They've got the gardens done. They've got the powerhouse done. It is absolutely gorgeous. But, of course, with a tragedy like that, there are going to be ghosts.

Of course.

So, you know, the most common ghost that is seen there is, of course, the Lady in White.

Louise.

Louise. She is seen walking the grounds. She's seen walking, like, near the edge of the water. People have seen her, like, floating over the water. And she's just, like, looking. She's just looking. She's not doing anything. She's just walking around. But there's also been, like, other things. Like, people have seen, like, lights in the castle at night when there's nobody there because the island is closed. You can only go there during the day. And there's no electricity in some of the upper floors, but people have seen lights in the windows.

Oh, wow.

And then, you know, there's also, like, the sound of footsteps. People have heard footsteps in the castle when they're the only ones there. And, you know, there's also, like, the feeling of being watched. A lot of people have said that they feel like they're being watched when they're in the castle.

I bet.

But, you know, it's not a scary place. It's a very sad place, but it's also very beautiful. And, you know, I think Louise is just there because she loved it so much, and she never got to see it finished. So she's just kind of enjoying it now.

That is so sad, but also kind of sweet that she's still there.

Yeah, it is. It really is.

Well, that is a great story, Chelle. I love that.

Thanks.

All right. Well, are you ready for my haunted campground story?

I am so ready.

All right. So, we are going to Lake Morena Campground, which is in San Diego County, California. It is about 50 miles east of San Diego, so it's up in the mountains. It's a reservoir, so there's a lake there. And it is known as one of the most haunted campgrounds in the United States.

Oh, really?

Yes. It has a lot of history. So, the land was originally inhabited by the Kumeyaay Indians. And then, in the late 1800s, they started building a dam there to create a reservoir for San Diego. And the dam was finished in 1912. But in 1916, there was a huge flood. Have you ever heard of Charles Hatfield, the rainmaker?

No.

So, Charles Hatfield was a guy who claimed that he could make it rain using a secret mixture of chemicals that he would evaporate from these towers that he built. And in 1915, San Diego was in a really bad drought. And the city council hired Hatfield to make it rain to fill the Morena reservoir. And they agreed to pay him $10,000 if he could fill it.

Wow.

So, he went up to Lake Morena, and he built his tower, and he started doing his thing. And in January of 1916, it started raining. And it didn't stop. It rained for, like, two and a half weeks. It was a massive, massive flood. It washed out bridges, it washed out homes, and it actually broke another dam, the Lower Otay Dam, and killed about 20 people.

Oh, my god.

Yeah. It was a huge disaster. And the city refused to pay him because they said it was an act of God, not his doing. And he sued them, and it went on for years. But, anyway, so there's a lot of tragedy associated with that flood. And then, in the 1950s, the county turned it into a park and campground. And since then, there have been so many reports of paranormal activity there.

Like what?

So, one of the most common things is a lady in white. Again, the lady in white. She is seen standing near the lake, or walking through the campground. And she's often described as wearing a long, white dress, like a nightgown or a wedding dress. And she just kind of wanders around and then disappears.

Mhm.

And then there's also a lot of reports of heavy footsteps around people's tents at night. People will be lying in their tents, and they'll hear the sound of someone walking around their tent, like, heavy boots on the gravel. And they'll look outside, and there's nobody there.

Oh, that's creepy.

Yeah. And then there's also reports of people hearing voices, like, whispering or laughing, when there's no one around. And some people have even reported seeing full-body apparitions of people in old-fashioned clothing, like, from the early 1900s, just walking through the campground and then vanishing.

Wow.

And there's one specific area of the campground, near the old dam keeper's house, where people have reported a lot of activity. They've seen lights moving around inside the house when it's locked up and empty. And they've heard the sound of a baby crying near the house.

Oh, that's sad.

Yeah. And then there's also a lot of reports of people feeling a sudden drop in temperature, or feeling like they're being watched, or even being touched by unseen hands.

Oh, no.

Yeah. So, it's a very active place. And a lot of people think that the ghosts are the spirits of the people who died in the 1916 flood, or maybe even the spirits of the Native Americans who lived there before.

Yeah, that makes sense.

But, yeah, it's a very beautiful place during the day. It's great for hiking and fishing. But at night, it gets pretty creepy.

I bet. I don't think I'd want to camp there.

Yeah, I don't know if I would either. I like camping, but I don't know if I want to share my tent with a ghost.

Right? Exactly.

Well, those are two great stories, Chelle. I think we started the summer session off right.

I think so, too.

All right. Well, I think that is it for this episode. Thank you so much for listening.

Yes, thank you. And we will see you next week.

Bye.

Bye.

Chelle: Like I said, he began construction in 1900, 1901, and his intention was was to gift her the castle on Valentine's Day of 1905.

Laylla: Oh, no. Oh, damn.

Chelle: But in 1904—right. So, now, keep in mind, she would go there and they would visit, they would take the kids there and the kids would play there for the day, and they would hang out and have picnics, and they'd go show their rich friends, you know, all the progress, but they never moved in.

Laylla: They never lived there.

Chelle: Never lived there. So, she died unexpectedly in 1904. He immediately—he was in New York at the Astoria—immediately telegraphed workers to stop all construction. Basically, they laid down their hammers, got on their boats, and sailed off and never came back. He just couldn't bear to finish the castle without her.

Laylla: That's so sad.

Chelle: Yeah. Even he never returned after that.

Laylla: Oh, wow. So, this 6,000 square foot castle just laid there? 60,000?

Chelle: 60,000.

Laylla: Oh, excuse me. 60,000 square foot castle with a yacht house and a play castle just sat there?

Chelle: Unfinished. And and keep in mind, it was only, you know, maybe six, eight months away from being done. So, the majority of this is done at this point, okay? 73 years, the castle was abandoned, subject to the elements, subject to vandals.

Laylla: He wouldn't even sell it and let someone else live there?

Chelle: 73 years it was abandoned.

Laylla: Wow. Oh, that's so sad.

Chelle: Think of it like you're so heartbroken, you just can't even freaking fathom, okay? And that's what—that's what—I mean, this man loved her so much, he just couldn't. He just couldn't.

Laylla: He shaped the island like a heart. He fashioned it after the castles of his childhood.

Chelle: He couldn't. He could not even think about it enough to sell it.

Laylla: He was going to gift it to her on Valentine's Day, and she died a few months before that. Yeah. Heartbreaking. Heartbreaking.

Chelle: So, 73 years it laid derelict. Finally, 1977, the Thousand Islands Bridge Authority acquired the castle and systematically have been restoring it ever since. The place is freaking gorgeous. They've even got furniture in it now. It looks like—like it actually looks like they lived in it a week ago. It's all done up how it would be in the early 1900s, very authentic, very awesome. So, now we've gotten into kind of the backstory here. And like I said, you know, there—workers spent a good four years working on this. It was almost complete by the time they were told to drop hammer and walk away. So, it was almost complete. They had a a child, Clover, and Clover actually had spent time there. She actually has a a house right across the bay from there, had a house right across the bay. She's since passed, obviously. Some of the stories of when folks would first go there—now, like I said, 1977, the Thousand Islands Bridge Authority took it over. So, now, you know, you can't just trespass there. You do have to pay to enter. It's a nominal fee, worth every cent.

Laylla: Did they make it a park?

Chelle: I don't know if you'd call it a park per se, but like—

Laylla: An attraction?

Chelle: It's an attraction. You can rent—you can take a ferry over if you don't have your own means of water transportation. Um, you can hop on a ferry boat, 10-minute ride over from Alexandria Bay over to Heart Island. I think it's like 10 bucks to go through. Once you go through the gate, pay your 10 bucks, you can wander the whole island and the whole property for an unlimited amount of time.

Laylla: Could you bring a picnic and have a picnic on the grounds?

Chelle: You could bring a picnic and have a picnic on the grounds, yes.

Laylla: Could I bring a ghost hunting kit and go ghost hunting in the backyard?

Chelle: You absolutely could, but you do not have free reign without the public. I mean, there'd be people there. But yeah.

Laylla: So, I could bring a Ouija board and fuck around and find out.

Chelle: Oh, we could totally fuck around and find out. The only problem is is there's no after-dark access.

Laylla: Oh, bummer. But are there ghosts here?

Chelle: So, that's where we're getting into the relevancy to this podcast. Now, first of all, you can only get to this by boat, so it's not like any old rando is just going to wander upon it. You have to have a boat to access it. Prior to 1977, there were people that had very lavish stories, and as you can imagine, back in those days—we weren't alive back in the '40s and '50s and '60s—but you start talking about ghosts, and people are like, "Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, crazy train." Okay? So, like I said, early 1900s, um, this started becoming a popular vacation spot in the Northeast, which just ramped up over time. My own family in the '50s got on that bandwagon, and my grandparents from the '50s until the time of their death vacationed there every year. My mother's vacationed there from the time of her birth until—we're going in a month. Me, from the time of my birth to—I'm going in a month.

Laylla: I think that means that you and your family by inheritance should own this island.

Chelle: We should—we should own the whole shit and caboodle up there.

Laylla: I'm pretty sure. I think by right of having been there for so long, consistently, that Heart Island should be yours.

Chelle: I should own enough to put a tent there, at least enough space for a tent.

Laylla: I agree. I second this motion. Let's get it in writing.

Chelle: So, you know, a lot of boaters, um, back in the '50s and '60s, uh, personal watercrafts started becoming popular. People were having their own family motorized boats back then. And so, there was a lot of folks that were just venturing out on the water, and they'd come across this abandoned castle. And I mean, I'm sure you can imagine just coming across this—you're cruising up this big huge river, and all of a sudden, this six-story freaking mammoth of a castle out of nowhere.

Laylla: That would be quite the sight to see, especially unexpectedly.

Chelle: It absolutely is. And so, you know, people start looking around, and you know, I personally—I'm actually going to show you a picture of the children's castle portion of it.

Laylla: That looks like someone could stay there. It's huge. It's stunning. Someone could live in there.

Chelle: That's just for the children. That's just a tiny—that's the tiny castle.

Laylla: Their playhouse has got to be bigger than most people's normal house.

Chelle: Correct.

Laylla: That looks like an—an easy 10-bedroom house.

Chelle: Correct. Correct. And these people would be like, "What the holy hell? We want to stop and look around." And you know, I can tell you from personal experience, when you have your own watercraft up there, you can go around and ride around at nighttime. I mean, we've been out on our family boat at nighttime cruising the river. So, imagine coming up on this at dusk or in the evening time. You know, I happen to be showing you currently a picture of the children's castle. There is a bowling alley in the basement. Now, you can see this is a huge river. You're like, "What? There's a basement?"

Laylla: The basement underground?

Chelle: The basement is underground, under the water.

Laylla: That's creepy.

Chelle: And they built all this. So, as you can imagine, a lot of workers died. In the late 1800s, early 1900s, they didn't have OSHA, we'll just say.

Laylla: Good point.

Chelle: No OSHA.

Laylla: Yeah, to build a basement in a river. I mean, this castle—we'll put some pictures on our Instagram—but the children's castle looks like a little castle. It's beautiful, stone castle, but it is literally in the water. There is an arched bridge that goes from the island to the castle. The entire castle is in the water.

Chelle: Right. It's kind of cool. Not going to lie.

Laylla: So, to put a basement there, they had to have built a basement in the fucking river.

Chelle: Underground, in the water.

Laylla: No OSHA.

Chelle: Yeah, no OSHA. No safety requirements.

Laylla: So, a lot of people died. Oh, wow.

Chelle: They did. They did. And—

Laylla: I want to live in that children's castle. How do I live there?

Chelle: I would live— yeah, I'd live in the small baby children's castle and be A-OK and not even have a care in the world. But, you know, beautiful stone laid, so they were bringing stone over on boats. So, there was boat sinkings from workers where workers drowned. You know, they're—they're blasting out things underground, and as you can imagine, people are going to drown. But like, look at—look at this picture, um, and and again, we'll post this for our our viewers. Look at some of these pictures, uh, coming up on the castle. This is the power tower over here. I'd live in the powerhouse, okay?

Laylla: Holy shit. This castle looks like a little city.

Chelle: It kind of does.

Laylla: I mean, from the water, on the island, it looks like many houses. It looks like a little town.

Chelle: It does. And and and the castle itself, aside from the other outbuildings, is just huge, enormous, and just picturesque. It's—

Laylla: I'm actually flabbergasted because the last time I saw pictures of this castle, I think was a good 20, 30 years ago.

Chelle: And it was dilapidated?

Laylla: Yes. This has been a lot of work done on it, right? I mean—

Chelle: Oh, millions and millions of dollars. I think they've put in something like 25 million into it.

Laylla: I remember looking at it back when you first told me about it, a good 30 years ago, and being so fucking sad at how crumbled it was.

Chelle: No, they've—they've done a lot.

Laylla: This is amazing.

Chelle: This is a picture of the yacht house, uh, like I said, is about a thousand yards off.

Laylla: Holy fuck. The yacht house looks like something you'd find in the Swiss Alps. Again, it looks like it was built on an extension out from the island into the water, not actually on the island itself.

Chelle: Well, and again, you know, this guy is from German descent, so these are going to have those German undertones to them.

Laylla: Yeah, that aesthetic kind of look.

Chelle: Right. It's just amazing, the detail.

Laylla: The scope of that project, how much that must have cost is staggering.

Chelle: For love, money means nothing.

Laylla: Oh, the story is so romantically tragic.

Chelle: But there's been stories that because she was there and because the children were playing there, people believe they've seen her there. They believe they've seen Louise Boldt there. And I can get it because, yes, she may not have lived there and spent 24/7 there, but A, she did visit it there, and it was her gift. Even after death, she would have known that was her gift. I think that the folks that have said that they've seen her in the windows and they've seen her walking down the halls, I do think it is Louise Boldt. But they have also heard the screams of workers. They've heard sometimes in the bowling alley portion, which is in that basement part of the children's castle, they can hear gurgling as if someone is drowning.

Laylla: Oh, that's awful.

Chelle: But imagine that the working conditions, working under this in the 1900s, think of the workers that not only in the blasting and the building of the tunnels in the underground spaces were risking being drowned there, but the workers that didn't make it to shore because the boats sank or what have you and they drowned in the river itself right there. So, they do hear the screams, they do hear the cries. But unfortunately, based on the time of construction, it's almost expected.

Laylla: Wow, that's too bad. That's sad.

Chelle: They do hear, sometimes at night, there have been—because you can—you can circle the island at night, you just aren't supposed to dock and get off at night. Um, but there's been boaters fishing around the islands at night that have heard children playing. They've heard what they sounded to be like, you know—you know back in the day, those old rubber kickballs, those red rubber freaking kickballs that they played dodgeball with?

Laylla: They make a distinct sound when they hit the side of your head.

Chelle: They do, but they make a distinct sound when they get kicked, too. And people that have been fishing around there at night said they've heard children laughing and giggling and have heard that distinct sound of that ball getting kicked.

Laylla: Oh, wow. You know, I'm not surprised that Louise and the children are still there, even though they didn't pass away on the island, because we have seen over and over again, Chelle, the same criteria. It's a place that had a lot of emotional connection to the person, and it has a lot of stone, particularly limestone, and running water.

Chelle: And this is right in the middle of it.

Laylla: Right in the middle, and it's built of stone. And so, that makes a lot of sense. We've seen those same conditions play out over and over again, and not only do they tend to have a lot of hauntings, but they tend to be hauntings sometimes by people who had an emotional connection rather than dying there.

Chelle: But you want to hear an interesting theory that went around for a while on the internet, and I almost buy into it?

Laylla: Oh, I'm curious. What is it?

Chelle: Okay, you know the theory of rewinding time and it just playing over and over, like the Groundhog Day of ghost stories?

Laylla: Yeah, the stone tape theory.

Chelle: People think that there is that going on here because—and this is a good freaking theory, let me tell you—this is one of the few rivers in the world that flows technically backwards.

Laylla: Right, the St. Lawrence is one of the few rivers that flows northeast, I think. So, from the Great Lakes out to the ocean. I've heard a lot of ghosty stories and paranormal activity talking about north-flowing rivers.

Chelle: So, you've got water technically moving in backwards motion. But yeah, so—so the Atlantic Ocean, um, creates, you know, right in that area, New Brunswick, Nova Scotia area, you you get the the Gulf of St. Lawrence. And then, like I'm actually going to show you—I know I can't really show our listeners right now, but they can Google it, friends.

Laylla: That again follows the stone tape theory, which says that some traumatic or very happy, emotionally charged event can be recorded in the very air, in the fabric of the earth around you, particularly in places that have a heavy stone concentration and have water or running water involved. These places tend to hold onto some type of recording, and those are the ghosts that kind of repeat the same actions over and over again.

Chelle: That's the theory people have with the backwards water flow is that because the water—this is one of the few places where the water technically flows backwards and against the natural flow of water—that it's rewinding time over and over and that these folks are just on the island reliving the same moments over and over and that that has to do with the backwards flow of the water.

Laylla: Interesting. Oh, that's a very interesting theory.

Chelle: And I I you know, I don't know if it's because this this castle is near and dear to my heart and the story and the love story, but I I I want to buy into it that that backwards flow of the water is letting the Boldt family relive their happy times on the island before she died. Because, yes, you do hear the sad parts, the screaming, the crying out, the gurgling of workers that may have perished. But you're also talking about the happy times of the other folks as well, so there's a balance between the happy and the sad. You know, there's—there's not too many stories of apparitions other than Louise. People say they have seen her in the windows, walking up and down the hallways. Workers who are there after hours and potentially at the dark period say they've seen what they thought was Louise roaming the halls. Not a lot of apparitions here. It's more of the vocalizations that they're—that people are hearing. But when you step on the island and when you—you just you feel it. You feel a combination of endless love and endless sadness. You feel George's heartbreak when you step on that island. Like, you're in awe, but your first thought is, "This poor guy," even though you're in awe.

Laylla: Wow, what a tragic love story.

Chelle: And there is some talk that—there was a—I can't remember what show it was, one of the ghost hunter shows—Meat Loaf, they took Meat Loaf up to the Thousand Islands. Like—

Laylla: Yeah, doesn't he have his or didn't he have his own ghost hunting series for a little while?

Chelle: I think he did for a little while, but what got him going was he guested on another show and they did the Thousand Islands region and they talked about Boldt Castle and some—another castle up there called Singer Castle, which we might talk about potentially next week to to do a final gear up to my vacation up to the Thousand Islands. But yeah, Meat Loaf did a an episode going to different spots in the Thousand Islands, um, because like I said, as much as it's a hot spot right now in 2023, this was becoming a big hot spot in the 1900s, 1920s, 1930s, 1940s. So, there's a long history of big old rich people houses and people going on vacations here, and unfortunately, some tragedy and some ghosts.

Laylla: I've always wanted to visit there. Every time you've told me any story about the place, you have talked about the eerie feeling, the—

Chelle: This is like the one place we've never gone together.

Laylla: We have not, but the place itself definitely has always sounded like the air itself has that feeling of tragedy, but at the same time, almost a feeling of hope. So, interesting.

Chelle: The whole area itself, not not just Boldt Castle and and Heart Island, but the whole Thousand Islands region has an air of old-time memories, if that makes sense. I think it could just be because it is a primarily vacation spot and people don't necessarily live there year-round, not a ton of people live there year-round. But it's got that bring you back to—you know, my my grandparents, unfortunately, are are are passed and gone, but when I get up there, it's almost like I feel like I didn't see my grandma 10 minutes ago, but I feel like she's four camps down because I'm there and my—you know what I mean? It's like you feel everybody who's ever been there, and it has that familiar, nostalgic—

Laylla: Back in time.

Chelle: —back in time feel. Yeah.

Laylla: Maybe there's something to that water going backwards that's making that kind of time loop there. I don't know. It's an interesting play on the stone tape theory. I'm very intrigued.

Chelle: I just feel like when I get there, I just step into a 1950s postcard, and I'm in that postcard for a week, and then all of a sudden, I'm in some crazed reality that's reality when I leave.

Laylla: I feel like that when I leave a pagan festival.

Chelle: There is that back in time feel to this place, and it it—it's almost like the memories and I don't want to say the spirits and the ghosts of old that are there, but they draw you back to a time where nothing else matters than being there. Nothing else is relevant than being there in the moment. You forget reality when you're up there, and it's almost like—I don't want to say it's got this like gates of hell thing because it's not hell. It's got like this gates of paradise where you better—you got to, you know—remember that time we did that dream walk to Avalon and we tied our coven cords, then the athame to ground us in? It's almost like you got to ground yourself in when you go here because it's like the spirits pull you back to a time where everything was wonderful.

Laylla: Hey, I'm ready. I got to go camp in there now. I got to visit. Sounds awesome.

Chelle: So, now that I've done my little preaching about how much I love the Thousand Islands region and Boldt Castle and and you know, maybe I should take my Ouija board up. Oh, my god.

Laylla: You should. You should ask. See who's there.

Chelle: Do some fucker around and find out.

Laylla: Your comment about Meat Loaf—I hate to say it—but your comment about Meat Loaf got me thinking about another star that we've talked about recently on this podcast, Kesha, she of the haunted pussy.

Chelle: Love Kesha.

Laylla: I did not know this, but I found out after we were talking about her, that she also has, I think, a short-lived ghost hunting series. I haven't watched it yet, yeah, but she starred herself in a ghost hunting show. So, I'm going to have to look that up.

Laylla: I'm going to have to look that up. I'm interested.

Chelle: Because who doesn't love some Kesha? I mean, come on. So, my ghost story also is about a campground. This is in California. We're going to a place called Lake Morena.

Laylla: Ooh, I like it. It's got water.

Chelle: Yeah, Lake Morena actually isn't really a lake, it's a reservoir, and it was created in the early 1900s to serve the San Diego area. The dam that forms the reservoir is one of the oldest parts of San Diego's municipal water system. Most of San Diego is haunted anyways, but Lake Morena is considered to be the most haunted campground in the United States.

Laylla: Really? Okay, I'm intrigued. I'm intrigued.

Chelle: So, one of the reasons they say why this area might be so rife with paranormal activity and ghost sightings is because in 1916, the reservoir flooded and over 50 people in the surrounding area were killed. There's a weird backstory to the flooding, actually. It was caused by a man named Charles Hatfield, but he called himself the Rainmaker.

Laylla: What? So, this guy did it on purpose? The Rainmaker, my ass.

Chelle: Well, Charles was a well-known literal rainmaker. He said he had created some type of mixture that he could release through a tower and it would cause rain.

Laylla: Let me guess, he worked for the government.

Chelle: No, he worked for himself. But he started out with some ranchers in Los Angeles who wanted rain. It was, this is right around the time when droughts are happening.

Laylla: I'm just saying, this sounds an awful lot like pre-chemtrails.

Chelle: Like snake oil salesmen, right? Absolutely. But he managed to tell these farmers that he would produce some rain for them and he said, "Give me 50 bucks and I'll make it rain." At the time, let's see, $50 was equivalent to just over $1,000 in today's money, roughly $1,100. So, for that money, he said, "I'll do this." So, he built this like evaporating tower and released his mixture into the air, and it rained. So, the ranchers paid him. He was so successful...

Laylla: Oh, sucker!

Chelle: ...they doubled the money that they had offered him.

Laylla: Oh, shit. Why didn't I come up with that idea?

Chelle: Right? He's now got a reputation as a man who can literally make it rain, and so he starts getting jobs.

Laylla: Humbuggerry. Damn.

Chelle: Right? He promised officials in the city of Los Angeles that he could make it rain a lot. And then, it rained 18 inches and they paid him $1,000 at the time, which is the equivalent to about $21,000 today.

Laylla: Wow.

Chelle: So, then, uh, he goes to a few other places and he gets a contract for $10,000 at the time.

Laylla: Wow.

Chelle: But it didn't work. Didn't work. So, he managed to get some money for expenses, but he's mostly got a positive reputation for a man being able to make it rain. So, in comes the reservoir at Lake Morena. The reservoir is at its lowest point, they're facing drought.

Laylla: The city wants some rain, just give the guy a call.

Chelle: They call the Rainmaker, Charles Hatfield, and in he comes and he says, for $1,000 an inch, that he would make it rain and fill the reservoir.

Laylla: A thousand dollars an inch? Is this porn? Like, what's going on?

Chelle: And the council said, "Give us 10 inches. Give us 10 inches of rain." I had to specify of rain. "Give us 10 inches of rain in the reservoir and we'll give you $10,000."

Laylla: Wow.

Chelle: So, he is about to make a lot of money. So, he and his brother build their stupid tower and release their magical chemicals into the air. Shortly afterwards, on January 5th, 1916, the rains began, and they kept raining, and it got heavier and heavier and heavier.

Laylla: No shit.

Chelle: No shit. Until they were getting feet of rain in the reservoir.

Laylla: Until they couldn't handle it at that point.

Chelle: It was too much. Riverbeds flooded, bridges were out, people got marooned, houses were flooded. On January 27th, the dam overflowed. It was just devastating. And again, about 50 people lost their lives. So, Hatfield, a few weeks later, walks into the council and says, "Hey, I made it rain like I promised. I made it rain a lot more than 10 inches, but I'll take my $10,000 now, thanks."

Laylla: Wow, did he get it?

Chelle: No. The town was livid, pissed off. They're like, "You have to pay damages. You made it rain so much that there's over three and a half million dollars"—I'm not even going to calculate what that is in today's dollars—"three and a half million dollars worth of damages. You need to pay for this." And so, everybody went to court, and it took a very long time. And finally, the court said it was an act of God. The court said either the rain was an act of God, in which case Hatfield is not responsible for the damages and does not get paid because he didn't make it rain, or Hatfield made it rain, in which case he can collect his money and he is responsible for the three and a half million in damages.

Laylla: Catch-22, my friend.

Chelle: Hatfield chose to not collect the money. Now, did he really have a chemical mixture that could make it rain? No. He was just really good at being able to predict weather patterns.

Laylla: Right.

Chelle: And he had a better than 50% chance at having his mixture quote-unquote "work". And so, that was his con, basically. But the deaths, unfortunately, were very, very real. And to this day, people say that they will see orbs around the shores of the lake. And there is a lady in white, but I wasn't able to find a lot of information on her and I could not find her particular backstory. I can just assume she was one of the people that perished in the flooding.

Laylla: Right.

Chelle: But she is seen very often walking the shores of the reservoir, all white dress, long white hair. She'll stop and stare at people, which is the creepy part of her ghost story. But that's all she does is, uh, she's just seen walking, and at most, if she sees you looking at her, she'll stop and stare back.

Laylla: Oh.

Chelle: But then she disappears. The other thing that happens quite a bit, this is a campground and you can go stay there. It's a really nice campground. But there are a ton of stories that people will have all over online, on Yelp, on Reddit. People talk about in the middle of the night, uh, they'll be in their tent and they'll hear footsteps of someone walking up to their tent or walking around their tent, and then just stop. They never hear them leave. And if they look out of their tent, there's never anyone there and there's no marks on the ground.

Laylla: I'd be like, "What?"

Chelle: So, they call it the invisible ghost because people will hear someone walk up to them or walk up to their camp, but there's no one there and they never hear the footsteps receding.

Laylla: Oh, eh.

Chelle: Really creepy, right?

Laylla: Yeah. Like, when I'm in my tent, I don't want to be messed with because I'm going to think you're a grizzly bear. I'd rather it be a ghost than a grizzly bear, but if I'm in my tent, I don't know.

Chelle: Right? I'd be so scared to stick my head out.

Laylla: Or, you know, it could be Bigfoot. Just saying, just saying.

Chelle: It's probably Bigfoot.

Laylla: That's my guess.

Chelle: Some of these stories actually made the newspaper. In 1981, a gentleman named Walter Stucker was a volunteer at the park who actually was able to live in a trailer right on the lake and he had unlimited fishing privileges there. It was kind of like a volunteer, like groundskeeper.

Laylla: Right.

Chelle: He says that everything was great, he really loved living there, but he says one fall evening he woke up, some sort of noise, something woke him up, and he looked out the window and he says he was looking directly in the eyes of someone who was standing right there. The only problem is, is his window, for someone to be standing there, they would have had to be levitating a couple feet off the ground. And he says the gentleman was wearing a dark cloak and a knitted foul-weather cap. And he says they kind of stared at each other for a little bit, and then the person just turned around and walked towards the lake. Stucker says that there was no full moon, but it was light enough to see clearly. The man was taking very deliberate steps, but it seemed to me his feet weren't touching the ground. They appeared to be about six or seven inches above the surface. And he says he walked out to the lake and disappeared. And he said he had quite a few more encounters that fall, similar to the man who was walking on air, other shadow people, and he finally decided to go tell the rangers. He went to the ranger cabin, took his keys and said he was leaving, he couldn't take the encounters anymore, it was too weird.

Laylla: Chicken.

Chelle: And the supervisor, Ranger Tracy Walker, had no doubts, was not surprised in the least, because he said he'd had similar encounters himself. He said that the ranger station, which was originally a concession building that had been built in the '20s, and he said that all around it are all sticks and leaves, like people can't walk up to it quietly, you're going to make some noise. And he heard someone walk up to the cabin with heavy footsteps, and he was so certain that someone had come up that he put his work aside and went out to meet them. He heard them run right up to the door and move the handle of the door before he could get to it. And he's kind of concerned, maybe somebody was hurt, why, why were they in such a hurry, but they didn't come in. So, he opened the door and went out and there was no one there.

Laylla: Doo-doo-doo-doo, doo-doo-doo-doo.

Chelle: They had just been rattling the doorknob seconds before, so it's not like they could have gone anywhere. So, he told his wife and he went back to the office and she came with him, and it happened again while she was there.

Laylla: Oh, wow. Like confirmation.

Chelle: Same thing. They heard someone running up the side of the building, rattle the doorknob, and they both went there and no one was there. He says later he had another experience where the logbook that he had been writing on, it would often disappear. He said he would find it in weird places. Once he even found it in the bathtub.

Laylla: Oh, wow.

Chelle: Now, the campground is a popular stopover on the Pacific Crest Trail, and quite a few hikers of the trail will stop there, and several of them also had stories of seeing the lady in white that walks around the lake. Some of them had orb photos that they had taken, and quite a few of them often talk about hearing someone screaming in the woods.

Laylla: Why does always everybody got to be screaming? Why do people always got to be screaming?

Chelle: One couple heard what they thought was a young girl screaming, and they went to kind of scour around near them to see if they could find anything, and all they saw was a white shadow walk towards the lake and disappear.

Laylla: Oh, my god. Always the way.

Chelle: One of the creepier stories, it has to do with the very first house that was built at the lake. It's the dam keeper's house. One of the residents that would stay there said that quite a few poltergeist-type activities would happen often at the house, in particular when they had guests over. It was pretty quiet if it was just them, but if more people were staying at the house...

Laylla: ...they became more lively. They wanted to be seen.

Chelle: Something would happen and it would stir up the energies and things would move in front of people, or things that they put down would be misplaced. And one guest in particular, a woman was sleeping in the living room when she woke up in the middle of the night and she saw what she said looked like a baby's christening gown, so like a long, white, flowy dress.

Laylla: The early 1900s. I know exactly what you're talking about because sadly, I've seen them.

Chelle: She says it floated across the room to her. The arm of the gown reached out and brushed her cheek...

Laylla: Oh, I believe her.

Chelle: ...and then it floated back towards the window and disappeared. That would fucking creep me out.

Laylla: You know that 1900s gown. You know the look. I do. It just gives me the chills thinking about it.

Chelle: When I first read that, I thought of the cemetery investigation that we had done, or you had investigated it with some other friends, not me.

Laylla: Fallbrook. I think Fallbrook, folks, go back. It's like maybe episode five, six, seven, like it's an early episode, and I was scared shitless.

Chelle: And you found a fucking baby bonnet on the front seat of your car after coming back from that cemetery. That's all I could think of.

Laylla: Ah!

Chelle: So, there's quite a few ghosts, there's orbs, there's the lady in white. Most of them are, they're very active, but they're not evil. Like, nobody's really, they don't try to scare anyone. It just seems to be a lot of poltergeist activity, and then for whatever reason, the, the invisible ghost and the footsteps constantly coming up on people.

Laylla: Why do they always got to, why do ghosts, okay, I got a ghost question. If there's any ghosts out there, why you always got to be creeping up on us? Can't you just, like, I'm a loud person. When I'm coming at you, you know I'm coming. Why can't a ghost be that way? Why do you got to be a creeper?

Chelle: I know. Now, I do have a story, I'm not going to read the whole thing because it's very long, but a young woman named Alicia stayed there with her brother and her boyfriend, and she says that when they first got there, she could immediately tell that the place was haunted. And that's repeated by other people that I've seen on Reddit and Yelp and a few other places. They, they can sometimes feel it. It's not constant, but sometimes like this wave of unease will roll over the campground. This young woman, just like other people, said that she heard a woman's voice in the distance that sounds like she's talking or in distress. She also says that the feeling of dread and sorrow, which is kind of roll through them occasionally for no apparent reason, but particularly when the sun went down. They also would find, uh, cold spots around the campground, just randomly. Now, it's fucking hot in California. San Diego's not as bad, but it's still quite warm, and she said they would just find random cold spots as they were going about their camp chores. At night, they kept hearing what sounded like a woman crying in the woods, and then they would hear the footsteps coming up to their tent, and even though they wouldn't hear them leave, there'd be nobody out there when they'd go look. So, they kept having these experiences to the point where she, her brother, and her boyfriend, even though they weren't believers, they were so spooked and so feared, she said it was the most terrifying time that they'd ever had.

Laylla: It sounds like people have had consistently similar experiences.

Chelle: Yep, and it just seems like the, the feeling of sorrow and of sadness, really, and, and just a, an eerie heaviness rather than any type of evil or malevolence. So, creepy place and definitely has a lot of activity there for a campground. So, if you want to experience your campfire ghost stories rather than just tell them, head to Lake Morena Campground. It's in Campo, California. Check it out.

Laylla: It makes me want to go.

Chelle: Right? How fun would it be to go camp there and see if we could get pictures of the lady in white?

Laylla: Oh, perfect. Camping and ghosts? Right? All they need is ice cream.

Chelle: And I think there is one. There's a lot of concessions. It's like a state park. There's a lot to do there, so definitely a cool place, but spooky as hell, spooky as hell. I love it.

Laylla: One final thing I want to touch on before we, before we wrap up today is, I have got a current news event that we got to talk about here.

Chelle: Oh, tell me, tell me, tell me. I've been waiting for this the whole show.

Laylla: So, what I've got for you is this current news event. You know me, I'm befuddled because we're talking 10-foot aliens in Vegas.

Chelle: I am loving all the alien stories. There's so much. The government was covering it up all along, we knew it, we knew it.

Laylla: Now, I want to say this is, um, this just came out on the news within the week. It's only a few days old as far as news story, but I believe this, this physically happened on April 30th, about a month or so ago, month and a half, two months ago.

Chelle: Time is irrelevant in the podcast world. We're just going to say it happened on April 30th.

Laylla: I want you to listen to the 911 call and then we'll discuss. You ready?

Chelle: Okay, I'm ready.

Guest: Okay, what's going on over there?

Guest: Okay, lady. Me, my dad, and my brother, we're working on a truck in our backyard. And we have a big lot outside, correct?

Guest: Okay.

Guest: We're working, and we just see in the corner of my eye something fall down from the sky, and it was with light, and when it hit down, it was like a big impact, and we felt it. We felt like an energy. And then, and then, and then we hear like a lot of footsteps near us, and then we have a big, a big equipment, and, and we see, and there's a, there's like an eight-foot person beside it, and another one's beside it, and they have big eyes and they're looking at us, and they're still there.

Guest: Okay, where is this on your property?

Guest: Uh, in, in, in my backyard. I swear to God, this is not a joke. This is actually, we're, we're terrified.

Guest: So, there's two people or two subjects that are in your backyard?

Guest: Correct, and they're very large. They're like eight-foot, nine-foot, ten-foot. They look like, they look like aliens to us. Big eyes, they have big eyes, like, I can't explain it, and big mouth. They're shiny eyes and they're not human, 100%.

Laylla: So, that's the original 911 call.

Chelle: No. No way.

Laylla: Now, what's even a little funnier...

Chelle: It crashed and they felt the impact and saw eight to ten feet people with big, oh my god. Oh my god.

Laylla: They did. But, what the other thing...

Chelle: Where are they now?

Laylla: The police get involved. So, you ready for this clip? I got another clip for you, okay? Here we go.

Chelle: All right, I'm ready.

Guest: Newly released bodycam from a bizarre police house call shows officers freaked out by a family's otherworldly claims.

Guest: Oh, I'm so nervous right now. I have butterflies, bro. I saw these people said aliens in their backyard.

Guest: Shortly after Las Vegas police witnessed a strange green streak falling from the sky, they were called to a family's home with reports of a non-human creature in their backyard.

Guest: There was like a big, yeah, like a 10-foot tall.

Guest: I'm not going to BS you guys. One of my partners said they saw something fall out of the sky, too. I'm kind of curious.

Guest: Officers searched the neighborhood and spoke to other residents.

Guest: Did you see the fact that our partner saw something at the exact same time?

Guest: But found nothing.

Guest: Sounds crazy, but you never know.

Guest: The case was eventually closed as unfounded, but the responding officers were clearly rattled.

Guest: If those nine-foot things come back, don't call us, all right? Deal with it yourself.

Laylla: Now, my first reaction to this, this part of the video is the cop says, "If those nine-foot beings come back, don't call us, handle it yourself." I love that.

Chelle: That's pretty typical. There was a green streak in the sky beforehand. What the actual fuck?

Laylla: Right, and that got caught on the officer's bodycam. I actually had another clip, I don't know if I have it readily available, where the officer said something like, you know, he's like, "I'm getting butterflies in my..."

Chelle: Yes, I heard that part. Holy shit. The officers were scared because there's nine-foot fucking aliens they just saw fall out of the sky. Holy crap.

Laylla: Now, this is where shit gets a little funny because, you know, I understand they're declassifying some of this UFO shit, but do you totally trust the government's take on aliens?

Chelle: No. No, they've been lying to us, they're still lying to us.

Laylla: So, I, I found an article because, of course, I have to research this. I'm not just looking, I'm, you know, I see it on Daily Mail and I'm like, "Oh my god, let me look it up." NASA says no go. I love NASA, great group of folks, do a lot of good work, but are they truth tellers? I'm still not convinced.

Chelle: So, what, they're saying nothing fell out of the sky, or what are they denying?

Laylla: No, what they're saying is, um, they're just saying that it was a meteor and that it was, uh, definitely not an alien craft.

Chelle: A small meteor that had a couple nine-foot, big-eyed guys on it.

Laylla: They're saying that it was likely a bright meteor less than a meter in size. Likely? Okay, where's your proof, yo? Because these people saw 10-foot aliens, and that's more proof than you saying it's likely a meteor.

Laylla: And those people were close enough that they felt the impact of it hitting.

Chelle: Right. Right. Basically, they're saying because they didn't physically find aliens and because someone of an authoritative figure didn't see it, that it's not true. So, because the guy who saw it in his backyard works for Costco, it's not true, but if he worked as a policeman, it would have been true? Like, I don't get that rationale, first of all.

Laylla: So, according to the story, there's like two aliens on the loose now. Is that what you're telling me?

Chelle: This guy says they had big eyes and it was looking right at them.

Laylla: And the body cam footage, listen to this. Listen to this tidbit. The body cam footage documenting the police's response shows that the officers on the scene found the report credible. Okay? The cops think that these people were credible.

Chelle: Yeah, they said so. I mean, they'd seen the thing land. They saw it hit the atmosphere. They know something was up. I'd be scared.

Laylla: Let me give you another interesting piece, and this part I'm a little up in arms about, um, because this is not normal for the government in any way, shape, or form. So, these people call, and they're like, "Hey, you know, we got these 10-foot aliens in our backyard." And the government's like, "Oh, no, it was just a meteor. But what we're gonna do is set up surveillance video camera on your house."

Chelle: Oh, the old, "It was nothing, but we're gonna put these cameras up in case that nothing comes back."

Laylla: No, you know what the story is?

Chelle: What?

Laylla: They're putting up the cameras to protect the family in case UFO fanatics trespass on their property.

Chelle: Or aliens. Or 10-foot aliens.

Laylla: So, basically, you're telling me that the federal government has begun surveillance with high-tech cameras outside of these people's homes to protect them from alien hunters? Bullshit. The government don't give a shit if they have alien hunters coming after them.

Chelle: That's the part where my I cannot suspend my disbelief. I cannot I cannot believe that the government would give a fuck enough about someone who called 911 about what they're saying is a fake story. They don't care. Why would they care enough to protect this family against that? They don't care. They're looking for those aliens to come back. That's what they want.

Laylla: I hear the 911 call, and like the guy on the phone, he didn't sound like he didn't sound like he gave a shit either way. He's just telling the facts. The cop, who you see his body cam footage, and he even says that he's scared. And then you got NASA saying, "What? What are these people talking about?" And then the government

Chelle: I saw the green flash in the sky. I saw that.

Laylla: Right. And then the government saying, "Oh, it's probably nothing, but let's spend a million dollars on cameras for your house. Wink, wink. Nudge, nudge."

Chelle: For protection.

Laylla: We're protecting We're protecting you from your neighbor because we didn't give a shit a week ago, but now all of a sudden we do.

Chelle: I have to say, I am loving all of these alien stories that are coming out.

Laylla: I think the government is shitting themselves on how much is coming out because it's there's sightings all over the world. There's a map you can pull up. You can Google um a UFO sightings map, and it'll give you a world map of sightings. And holy shit, there's a lot.

Chelle: That's amazing. I am so fucking I'm just so excited to see where this is going to go. Who knows what the next year is going to bring?

Laylla: So, keep your eye on the news because stuff's been happening on the regular. I don't know. Maybe it's because the aliens are like, "These people need help down there on Earth."

Chelle: Maybe. They're like, "The weed prices are out of control, amongst other things."

Laylla: That's the thing. You know, aliens, if you can come down here and get a grasp on the price of weed, please, I'm begging. Make it happen.

Chelle: Yes. There's also a lot of other really big problems that you should also get to, but weed for sure.

Laylla: Absolutely. Absolutely.

Chelle: So, thank you all so much for joining us on The Stoned Witches Hour, which is our We hope you have enjoyed your little interlude of high paranormal comedy and a little bit of UFO wellness.

Laylla: Keep your eyes on the skies, people, because they're coming.

Chelle: Apparently, they're here and uh hanging out in some dude's backyard, probably hanging out in somebody's barbecue, you know? They got the grill out.

Laylla: Actually, I was thinking they probably went and hit the slots down on the strip in Vegas.

Chelle: Yeah, no one would notice some 9-foot people there. Just put a hoodie on and some glasses. They'll think you're a poker player.

Laylla: Actually, in Vegas, probably no one would notice. If you're in Vegas and you see 9-foot aliens, let us know.

Chelle: Email us at thestonedwitcheshour@gmail.com. And uh oh, also, we put out our PO box, you know, 2 weeks ago, and uh I hearing rumors that we might be getting a package from uh from the listener who was going to send us a Ouija board. So

Laylla: Oh my god, that would be so great.

Chelle: Fingers crossed in 2 weeks we will have our uh Ouija board that we're supposed to cleanse and hopefully the backstory on what happened.

Laylla: Oh my god, I'm so excited. I can't wait. Can't wait.

Chelle: Me either. So, stay tuned. We will see you in 2 weeks on Wednesday at 4:20 AM for The Stoned Witches Hour.

Laylla: Keep it spooky, folks.
