Laylla: Welcome to Back on the Broomstick, a modern witches' spoken word grimoire, where two witchy friends from way back are reconnecting to their pagan roots after a long period of mundanity.

Chelle: We're rewalking the path of the wise and trying out all the latest spells, rituals, and magical theory in today's witchcraft and pagan practices.

Laylla: So grab your wand and your incense, your cauldron and your crystals, and join us as we get back on the broomstick.

Chelle: Hi, and welcome to Back on the Broomstick. In this episode, we'll be speaking to George Lizos, a Greek pagan priest of Hellenic polytheism. He's also a spiritual teacher, a psychic healer, a podcaster, best-selling author, and has been named one of the top 50 health and wellness influencers. So, Shel and I would like to welcome George Lizos to the show.

George: Hi, both. Thank you so much for having me.

Laylla: We're glad to have you here. You're in Cyprus, is that correct?

George: I am based in Cyprus, indeed. Yes.

Laylla: Nice. Nice.

Chelle: Before we get into your book, one of the things that I first noticed when I read in it, and I was quite surprised, I saw that Hellenic polytheism wasn't legal in Greece until it was recognized by the Greek government in 2017. Is that actually true?

George: Yes, exactly. So, the Greek government would not legalize Hellenic polytheism as an official religion. So, in 2017, when they finally did so, that's when the the Greek polytheists that had been running, I mean, Greek polytheism never really stopped evolving. It just went underground when Christianity took over back in the, like, late antiquity. But in 2017, when it was finally legalized, the Greek polytheists finally put up the first ever priesthood training, the official priesthood training, and that's the first one that I attended back in 2017. And I actually became, like, the first certified priest here in Cyprus.

Chelle: What was it that drew you there? Had you been practicing Hellenic paganism, or was it something that called to you after you moved there?

George: So, that is a long story, but the short version is that, my entire life, I have been exploring my spiritual path. I I grew up Christian. I let go of that religion, even though I was was really, like, into it when I was 15 years old because it just didn't make sense for me. And I started a whole journey of, like, exploration, and I went through so many different types of religion, spiritual practices, many of which I still practice. And then in 2017, by that time, I was had already published my first book, I had my spiritual business, I was coaching people, but I was working also a full-time job in London while also running my spiritual business part-time. And when you're, like, building a new business, you put in a lot of time, a lot of, like, of your free time into it. So, I would go to work 9:00 to 5:00, come home, work on my business until midnight, repeat the following day. The weekends were dedicated to my business. So, 3 years later, I had exhausted my body so much that I woke up one morning intending to go to work, but my body just refused to work. So, I burned myself out, like, to the point of exhaustion. So, that's when I realized something had to change. So, I went on a retreat to Glastonbury in the UK, which is, like, a magical town, not the party version of it, like, the the the little town version of it, which is, like, full of fairy shops and crystal shops, etc. So, I did a past life regression while I was in Glastonbury, and I saw myself as a prostitute who became pregnant with one of my client's babies, and when he found out, he stabbed me in the womb, killing the baby. And in that moment, I made the promise to reject my feminine energy and solely depend and abuse my masculine energy because that's what I experienced. And therefore, lifetime after lifetime, I kept rejecting feminine energy and overdepending on masculine energy. And the way it manifested into this lifetime is when I was 15, I tried to take my life because I couldn't accept the fact that I was gay. And and therefore, like, embracing my rejecting my feminine energy. And then years later, I was still rejecting my feminine energy by overdepending on my masculine energy and overworking myself and burning myself out. So, I I come out of the past life regression, tears running down my cheeks, and I'm like, "I need to connect with the divine feminine." Right across the street was the Goddess Temple of Glastonbury.

Chelle: Oh, little synchronicity.

George: So, I rush in, and I go to one of the priestesses, and I'm like, "Can you please help me connect with the divine feminine?" And she told me all about the Celtic goddesses, which I love, but then I realized that's not my culture. I wonder whether I can find the equivalent within the Greek culture. I go back to my hotel, I search online, and I find out the Greek government had just legalized Greek polytheism, and the workshop was running, and hence, I traveled to Greece to do that. So, it came out of the desire to connect with the feminine, but what I found was balance because that's essentially what the ancient Greeks practiced. They practiced a balanced spirituality between the feminine and the masculine, not just depending on one.

Chelle: I love that.

Laylla: I actually like that synchronicity of how your your kind of enlightenment to that synchronized with the legalization in Greece, which, by the way, blows my mind that it took until 2017.

George: Yeah, and they're still rejecting it. They're not really, like, they had to accept it legally, but the church is still fighting it.

Chelle: One of the things you said, George, about finding balance in deity, it it kind of hits on something that I read a little bit in your book is that we talk a lot about god and goddess, but there are no absolutes like that in deity. It's it's so much more of a spectrum. There's so much more to it than that. It's less of a binary system than people really think that it is.

George: Yes.

Chelle: We get so caught up into god and goddess when it it's really it's really about balance. You know, there there is no absolute binary here.

George: Yes.

Chelle: And I think it's easy to forget that and to forget that balance is really what we're striving for.

George: Yeah. The gods and goddesses don't really have genders. This gender is just what we've assigned to them. We've assigned gender to certain characteristics so that we can relate to them on a more personal level, and that's why we've personified the gods. The gods and goddesses, what they are, who they are, they are universal functions. They are universal laws. They're not just energies. They're not just archetypes. They are not separate deities. They are extensions of the universe and universal laws. When we work with Aphrodite, for example, she embodies the law of form. She is the law of form, and therefore, that who creates things and gives form to things, therefore. So, you cannot put a gender on the law of form or the law of creation. It's just the way we've related to the gods. But even with the ancient Greeks, they had gods and goddesses that were, for example, hermaphrodites. The example is Aphroditus, who is the the hermaphrodite version of Aphrodite, who was celebrated here in Cyprus, actually. Cyprus was the cult, the biggest cult of Aphrodite in the ancient times, and we have a bigger the the biggest temple of Aphrodite here where they celebrated Aphroditus. And it was basically, the way they the people thought about it and portrayed that being was a deity with breasts but also a phallus. And therefore, it was hermaphrodite. Now, the word hermaphrodite itself is an offspring of Hermes and Aphrodite.

Chelle: Right.

George: And therefore, another, like, intersex deity.

Laylla: Now, that kind of segues into a question I had. You talk in the book about why we pray to the gods, why we pray to deity. So, from your perspective, why do we pray to deity?

George: Yes, there's a misconception, both historically with, like, the scholars studying the ancient Greeks, and also people in general who practice the religion or spirituality, that people had a transactional relationship with the gods. "Oh, I want something, and therefore, I'm going to make a sacrifice or an offering, and I'm going to get something back." That's not how it worked. Of course, many people, the masses, may have understood it that way because, I mean, not everybody in a society understands religion and spirituality on a deep level. But really, the the spiritual people at the time, they did not have a transactional relationship with the gods, nor did they teach that. The gods couldn't care less about our offerings and our sacrifices and the libations. These are just ways for us to feel closer to the gods. It's a way for us to create a bridge between the profane and the sacred world so that we can communicate with the gods. So, when I'm doing my ritual and I'm making a libation of wine, or when I'm making an offering of grains, the gods don't care about that. It's for me to feel connected and to feel like I am in the presence of the gods because the gods don't give us anything. The gods have already given us. It's just a matter of us to realize the gods have graced us with their gifts and presence rather than receive them. It's a matter of understanding and realizing it's already happened.

Laylla: Aligning with that thought process of the gods.

George: Exactly. That's why in the

Laylla: I love how you pointed that out in the book. It's more of that alignment than that give and take.

George: Exactly. That's why in the chapters with the gods and goddesses, I have a practice where I say, "I am Aphrodite. I am Apollo," to remind people that we are the gods. We're swimming in the ocean of the gods, and therefore, they're not separate from us. So, when we say, "I am Hermes," I immediately embody the energy of the law of Hermes.

Chelle: That aligns with a lot of what I have learned as far as spell work and energy work, and even the current popularity or, I guess, resurgence of the law of attraction, that type of thing. It's when you align yourself with these energies, and when you when you phrase spell work in the present tense, "I have this. I am this. This is mine. This is what I'm doing now," that's when you get more in tune with what the gods, what the universe has in store for you. You put yourself into that flow, into that space, by saying it in that way. And I love how you put that in the book. It's it's a good reminder that, you know, you have to kind of shift your mindset into right now. "I have this right now." Not, "I want it," but, "I have it."

George: Yeah, because often when we when we read about the gods and goddesses, we we read about their myths, for example. And mythology and theology are two different things. But the the myths make the gods seem like these, like, bigger than life superhuman beings, but really, we are also part of the gods. We're not separate from them. So, that understanding also helps inform spell work and prayer work and affirmative work and manifestation work because we realize that if we are one with the gods, that means we're also one with our desires and what we want to manifest. And by making the same affirmation, like, "I am my desires," then you bring that into the forefront. Actually, my my next book that comes out in November, it's called Ancient Manifestation Secrets, and it's about the seven laws of the universe according to the ancient Hermetics. And I talk about the law of vibration, exactly that, and how to take the frequency of your desire and make it part of your energy field so you can manifest it.

Laylla: As if you're in that frequency, then you are you are manifesting that as you go.

George: Exactly. That's why I'm a big fan of energy-based manifestation. This is my own kind of practice where, of course, I love my vision boards. I have one behind me. I use all the, like, the bells and whistles of manifestation and, like, spells, etc. But I also like working with my energy field and getting that frequency, planting it, essentially, in my energy field, and letting myself manifest by magnetizing something to me.

Chelle: I love that. And now, that kind of goes hand in hand with another point I wanted to talk about where you talk about finding your guardian god or goddess because that's another way that I feel people can align themselves with a way they want to be or something they want to learn by choosing a deity or being chosen by a deity to walk with them in their particular energies. You spoke about you needed to connect with that divine feminine, the feminine within yourself, so you had Aphrodite as a guardian for a while to heal from that trauma and to find that self-love. And then you worked with Apollo, again, for a different energy, you know. And each time you look for something, you can choose one of these 12 deities, 12 gods or goddesses, that have that energy that you want to embody and work with that energy in that way. So, could you talk to us a little bit about finding a guardian god or goddess and how someone would go about doing that?

George: Yes, I want to preface this by giving people a gift, basically. When you go to greekmysticism.com, when you order the book and you enter your order number, I have a free workshop that people can get for free all about meeting your guardian god or goddess. So, greekmysticism.com where you can get that. But essentially, our patron god or our guardian god or goddess is someone we're born with. We're assigned to at birth or even before birth to guide us through our life, and it's basically the god or goddess that holds the frequency of the purpose that we have in this lifetime and our soul purpose over many lifetimes for those who believe in reincarnation. I do.

Chelle: I do.

George: But at the same time, we can work with different gods throughout our lives based on what it is we're working on. But really, what I'm trying to encourage people to do is work with all 12 gods because there's a reason why the ancients focused on 12 gods, and I talk about that in the book. Ancient philosopher Sallustius divided the gods into four categories based on the four, like, steps of creation. So, the different types of gods, and in each, like, step, there are three gods, and therefore, 3 times 4, it's 12 gods, which is why I had to exclude Dionysus because he's not one of the of the 12 steps according to Sallustius, and I wanted to base it on on that. So, by working with the 12 gods, first of all, you get to work with the whole of you. You get to work with the whole of the earth because the gods and goddesses, they are representations of universal laws that are part of nature. So, by only choosing one god and saying, "I only work with one god," that means you're working with one universal law, and you're excluding all the different aspects of nature. Whereas by embracing everything and working with a different god every single month, you get to find this sense of wholeness within you and develop all sides of you, not just one side of you.

Laylla: Not just that tunnel vision.

Chelle: I love that.

George: Yes, and you you embrace different aspects of yourself. The idea of choosing one god to focus on, that is patriarchy that is trying to limit us and tell us, "You can only do one job, for example, in this lifetime." Whereas I'm of the perspective right now that, yes, we have a single purpose, but we can have many expressions of that purpose. I'm an actor. I'm a singer. I'm also a spiritual teacher. Why can't I do both? Patriarchy wants us, "Choose one. Focus there." And therefore, "Choose one god. Focus there." No, let's work with all the gods.

Chelle: I love that. I love that, actually, because that that's so true, and it's if you work with all of them, there's a better chance that you'll work with the ones that you're afraid of. You'll work with your shadow side. You'll be able to better incorporate all of those parts, not just the ones you really like.

Laylla: Not just the comfortable aspects.

Chelle: Yeah.

George: Yeah, like Hera, for example. Hera, the queen of the gods, she, I mean, mythologically, she's a bitch. So, people don't like working with her. It's like, "Oh, why would I work with Hera?" I remember watching Xena: Warrior Princess and Hercules: The Legendary Journeys.

Chelle: That didn't make it any better. They did her dirty.

George: No, I didn't like Hera until I connected with her in when I went to my temple hopping trip to Greece, and I found so much love in connecting with her. I'm like, "Where is this Where was this in Xena: Warrior Princess?"

Chelle: I'm a Gabrielle fan all the way. Love her. Oh, my gosh.

George: I'm going to be on a Xena warrior podcast soon.

Chelle: You are not.

George: Yeah, it's a fan podcast, like, for the fans. And I'm going to talk about how the gods were portrayed in Xena. I'm so excited. So, it's an it's an excuse to, like, watch, like, the first two seasons right now so I can comment.

Chelle: Well, I'm going to be looking out for that because I was a huge fan back in the day. I loved those shows.

Laylla: I haven't seen that in so long.

Chelle: As wrong as they were. I still loved them.

George: Yeah, very wrong, by the way. I saw runes, runes, Pandora's box. It was supposed to be a jar, first of all, but Pandora's box had runes, like, Norse runes on it, and she was, like, throwing the runes. I'm like, "What are you doing? No."

Chelle: So, we can still have fun with it, even if it's not right, I suppose. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Now, love me some Xena: Warrior Princess, but getting back to the topic of the gods.

George: Yeah.

Chelle: You did mention working with all 12, and that kind of follows through with the the Greek Wheel of the Year, if you want to kind of call to it that. You know, one deity, and I like how you broke that down, one deity per month because that gives you a lot of time to work with those aspects of yourself. If you dedicate yourself to a whole year of study, which is a great idea anyways, you can just one deity a month and just immerse yourself in those aspects each month, and then, you know, by the end of the year, you've come through this whole cycle and learned a lot about yourself and about deity as well. Can you tell us a little bit about the Wheel of the Year aspect of it?

George: Yeah, so most people are familiar with the Celtic Wheel of the Year that has eight festivals around the changing of the seasons. So, the Greek Wheel of the Year follows that. It's based on that, like most pagan religions are. And it has 12 festivals around the the year, one for each lunar month, essentially, because the ancient Greeks followed lunar months. Now, it's important to note here that the ancient in ancient Greece, it wasn't like ancient Greece was not a unified country. There were city-states, and each city-state had a different Wheel of the Year, their own Wheel of the Year with their own festivals, but they all kind of, like, coincided when it comes to, like, the changing of the earth. But what the contemporary polytheists have done, they've created a unified calendar, and that's the one I include in the book, starting in January and ending in ending in December. And there's logic behind it when you see nature. In January, we have the Theogamia, the sacred wedding between Zeus and Hera, and therefore, it's a beginning of a new journey, and therefore, balancing the masculine and feminine energy. And then as the year grows and there is increased solar light coming in, we celebrate Demeter because, like, in February, because nature starts blooming, and then the Persephone comes up to the earth, like, mythologically. And then we go into Hephaestus, we go into Apollo, we go into Aphrodite when nature blooms and everything is is fully materialized in April. Then we go into Apollo in in May, and now, while we're recording this in June, we're into summer solstice and Hermes. And there is correlation between the gods, the festival, and how the earth changes. So, it does make sense and helps you align with it. But on a personal level, each god and goddess has their own virtues, and this comes from ethical philosophy. All the philosophers talked about living a virtuous life. They called it arete in Greek, which basically means virtue, so all about being a good human. And each god has virtues that we can use to embody and live as the god each month. For example, now with, um, summer solstice, let me just look at my cheat sheet over here. It's upside down. So, it's fair dealing and sociability. So, Hermes's virtues is fair dealing, and therefore, being fair with ourselves and with people, and sociability, like, being outgoing, communicating. And it makes sense. Think about the summer solstice, like, everything is in full bloom, our manifestations are materializing, so we want to be social, we want to get out of our comfort zone, we want to be fair with everybody. So, it does make sense.

Chelle: Now, one thing I like about your book is it kind of, it almost doubles as a workbook, and I love that about books when they're like part informational but part like workbook. So, if someone, if, if someone is going to kind of follow and go through the months in the deity each month, how do you recommend, if at all, they incorporate other deity into that yearly cycle that maybe aren't mentioned in the book? Say they want to add some Hecate or Dionysus, and they're not necessarily a part of the 12. How could they incorporate that into their learning year, for lack of a better phrase?

George: Oh, great question. Nobody asked me this question before, and I love it because that's something that I also wondered. And this is something that we do when we do our public ceremonies every month. So, let's say, for example, this month we're going to celebrate the summer solstice dedicated to Hermes and his, uh, the female component, Hestia. So, we're celebrating both a male and a female deity every single month to balance the scale. Okay, so we have Hermes and Hestia. At the same time, we're going to recite Orphic hymns, which is how we like, uh, honor the gods and make libations and offerings, to other gods as well that are related to Hermes and Hestia. For example, for the summer solstice, we're also going to include Helios, the sun god, and other sun gods. We're also may honor Aphrodite as well because it's related. So, we see mythologically who's related to those gods, and we bring them in. For example, when we celebrate Demeter, we also bring in Persephone. We also bring in the nymphs that are in nature. We also bring in Pan, the god of nature. So, we bring those secondary deities into the practice as well because they make sense, and they add their unique qualities. So, when we celebrate an Olympian, we don't just celebrate the Olympian. We also celebrate the secondary gods related to that Olympian.

Chelle: Okay. Okay. Cuz I, anytime I, I touch anything Greek, the first thing I'm looking for is some info on Hecate. And when I opened this, I'm like, wasn't added. And, and so I was like, how would I take this and add her into this rotation of, of that yearly cycle? But that makes absolute sense.

George: Let's talk about Hecate because she's very popular within the witchy community because of the Greek Magical Papyri. Now, the Greek Magical Papyri, they were discovered, they were basically in Egypt. It was, they were written in late antiquity when there was syncretism between Greek spirituality and Egyptian spirituality. So, they're not 100% Greek. They're a mix of Egyptian, Greek, Jewish, and Christianity. Okay. It's like, it's a melting pot of all the religions in late antiquity. And for some reason, the magicians in late antiquity, they took Hecate, who was a very ancient goddess, and they claimed she was the best goddess to work with when it comes to magic. Not just Hecate, there were certain gods that were favored. Helios was one of them, Hermes was one of them. They excluded a lot of the gods, and they focus exclusively on Hecate and a few other gods. And therefore, modern pagans and witches specifically, they've taken that information, and they've called Hecate the, the, the queen of, of witches and the goddess of witchcraft. She can be that, but she's not just that.

Laylla: There are other aspects.

George: Yes, there are other aspects of her that don't get any like, any attention because she's so popular within magic. Because I haven't done my research into that, I didn't want to include her in the book. And also, she's not one of the main Olympians, although I do love her and work with her.

Laylla: Now, we've talked about her before, and I have to say, I see her as, as the epitome of the ride-or-die best friend because one of the Homer stories was about her. When Persephone was kidnapped and Demeter was searching for her, Hecate was the only goddess who went and helped. And she helped search and then found Persephone and helped bring her back out and then said that when Persephone had to go back to the underworld every year, she'd go with her. And, and that's where she is with her torches. And, and so I, that's like a best friend thing right there. I think that's something that you would do for somebody that you really cared for. So, for me, she is the epitome of the ride-or-die best friend. I will do what I can to help you, no matter what.

George: And you know what? I think it's really important for people to have this personal relationship with the gods because, yes, we can look to the ancients, yes, you can read my book and understand certain things about the gods and goddesses, but your relationship with the gods is most important. Because when I connect, for example, with, with Aphrodite, I feel something completely different to what somebody else feels when they connect to Aphrodite. And that's the beauty about earth-based religions is they're not dogmatic. It's about our personal relationship with the gods, and that's the most important thing.

Laylla: Oh, I love that.

Chelle: Absolutely. If there was one thing that someone could do, in your opinion, to help them feel a connection with deity, to maybe have the, that guardian that was assigned to them or, or all of, of the goddesses, if there's one thing that they could do, what would you recommend someone do?

George: So, in the book, as you've seen, I have like many different practices for, at different levels of like complexity. People can set up a simple altar and connect with the gods, or they can follow the wheel of the year and practice the, practice the monthly festival. They can do a new moon ritual and a full moon ritual to combine that with manifestation. I have mantras, I have journal prompts, I have symbolism about the gods and goddesses. I have like simple practices and more complex practices. But my most favorite practice is something I talk about in the epilogue of the book. So, this was me writing, trying to finish the book. At the time last year, I was, I was finishing my first year in drama school, so I was rehearsing for, for exams, and then I was practicing for a Greek production of Mamma Mia!, and I was trying to finish the book, and I was trying to have a social life and failing at most things. And I'm like, I was advising people to like do three rituals every single month. And there I was, I hadn't done a single ritual in three months. And I'm like, I felt like such an impostor. So, in a moment of desperation, I go back to my notes that I had taken in 2017, and I read something that my teacher said, which was, "Stop trying to search for the gods outside of yourself. Stop trying to think that you need to do rituals to feel connected with the gods. You're already swimming in an ocean of the gods. You're part of the gods." In that moment, I closed my eyes, I placed one hand on my heart, and I said, "Wake up," to myself. And my intention was, wake up to my inner divinity. Wake up to the realization that the gods are here, that I am connected with the gods, that I don't need to do anything to connect with the gods because I'm already swimming in the ocean of the gods. I could do something if I wanted to, but I don't have to. That, for me, was liberating. And that's the number one thing that I advise everyone.

Chelle: I love that. I love that so much.

Laylla: Thank you for that. That, that's perfect. I think that's something that a lot of people need to hear, and, and that's beautiful. Thank you very much for that. Thank you, George, for being here. We really appreciate all of your insights and this wonderful book. We will put links in the show notes where you can find, uh, George Lizos's book, "Secrets of Greek Mysticism: A Modern Guide to Daily Practice with the Greek Gods and Goddesses". We'll put links to your website as well.

George: You can find me on Instagram @georgelizos. My website is georgelizos.com. You can get all the information about the, the book on greekmysticism.com. And also, I'm very excited to be coming to the US for the first time to teach a five-day certification workshop at the Omega Institute in Rhinebeck this coming September, and you can find all the information on my website. It's an energy clearing practitioner course. And yes, I'll be including some deity work in there as well.

Chelle: We hope you have an amazing first trip to America.

Laylla: Yes, how exciting!

George: Thank you. I'm so excited.

Chelle: I'm not currently there right now, and neither is Laylla, but that is our home state where you're going to, so enjoy.

George: Thank you so much. Thank you so much for having me.

Laylla: Thanks for listening to this episode of Back on the Broomstick. Chelle and I are off on our summer festival and workshop adventures. We'll be back next week with an episode on the upcoming holiday of Lughnasadh, also called Lammas. Please like, subscribe, tell your friends, leave a review. It really helps the show out, and Chelle and I appreciate the heck out of it. Be wise, be wicked.

Chelle: Keep it witchy.
