Welcome to Back on the Broomstick, a modern witches' spoken word grimoire, where two witchy friends from way back are reconnecting to their pagan roots after a long period of mundanity. We're rewalking the path of the wise and trying out all the latest spells, rituals, and magical theory in today's witchcraft and pagan practices. So grab your wand and your incense, your cauldron and your crystals, and join us as we get back on the broomstick.

Laylla: Hi, and welcome to Back on the Broomstick. I'm Laylla, and today we'll be talking about the greater sabbat of Lughnasadh, also sometimes called Lammas. This holiday is celebrated on August 1st in the Northern Hemisphere, and it's all about the harvest of the grains, the first fruits harvest.

Chelle: And I'm Chelle, and I'd like to start off by saying happy Lammas to everybody.

Laylla: Happy Lammas, happy Lughnasadh.

Chelle: Hope summer's treating you well thus far.

Laylla: I hope you're staying cool because, holy cow, it's hot.

Chelle: You know, I have a little saying I've been sticking with lately, and that is, and for all of our underage listeners, please do not repeat this in a high school setting, but it is hotter than a jalapeño's vagina out right now. Like, I ain't kidding. Like, I ain't kidding.

Laylla: I didn't know they had those. That's spicy.

Chelle: You know, funny story. So, when we went to New York City recently for Witches Fest USA, I actually heard that phrase down there.

Laylla: Did you really?

Chelle: Because it was that hot. And now it's stuck with me. I think that's going to be my summer phrase anytime it's over 95 degrees.

Laylla: Okay. All right. But that sounds like it'll go over really well in your New England area. I'm sure they'll very much appreciate that.

Chelle: They don't know me by now, right?

Laylla: Yeah, right. And back to Lammas.

Chelle: Back to Lammas, back to Lughnasadh. Now, if you haven't noticed yet, we're using two different words for this holiday.

Laylla: Why are we doing that?

Chelle: We're doing that because it's actually has a couple different roots. Lughnasadh is a celebration of Lugh, or to be more specific, Lugh is the sun god, and Lughnasadh is his celebration of his foster mother, Tailtiu, who cleared the lands in Ireland to help create agriculture, I guess. So, she cleared all the land for planting to create agriculture, but she died from exhaustion because it was a big job. So, Lugh created this festival to honor his foster mother. We honor grains and the sun and Lugh himself. But it's also called Lammas, which is more, I think, a Christianized holiday, but it means loaf mass. It's the first bread. It's the first loaf of the season that you get from these harvested grains.

Laylla: Well, and as you're aware, there are essentially three harvest festivals, this being the first. So, this is kind of that that time of year where those those seeds that you planted very early are starting to come to fruition, or those ideas that maybe you had poking around in your brain back in maybe November, December, January are coming to fruition now.

Laylla: Yeah, you should be starting to see the first inklings of things coming to pass.

Chelle: Yeah, yeah. So, you're kind of in the very first stages in a three-phase stage of reaping what you've sown.

Laylla: This is what you're doing energetically and magically, while in the physical world, the sun is at its height. We were just bitching about the heat mere seconds ago. Now, the sun feels very powerful, but is already on the waning side. It's already the dark half of the year, and the sun is getting less and less powerful.

Chelle: Really tell that to my skin that's on fire.

Laylla: Right. That's the that's the dichotomy of this season. That's the the balance that we're walking here is that we are faced with abundance. Everyone is trying to give you zucchini. There's the very first sweet corn. There's beans. There's herbs. There's grains. There's so much out there. But at the same time, to get that, you're cutting down the grain. Things are dying. The god himself is dying. He's going towards his sage phase. So, the the bright, young sun god is on his way out. So, you're celebrating both kind of at the same time, life and death, beginnings and endings.

Chelle: And I think people get kind of caught up in that because it is hard, you know, mid-late June to think we're starting the downswing. It doesn't feel that way until usually like September, October-ish. But yeah, we we technically are on the downswing of light. The days are getting shorter, nights are getting longer. You know, what is it, 90 seconds a day we're losing of light now. So, now is the time to start taking stock of things and maybe not going crazy balls out prep for for the dark times, but getting those inklings of ideas of starting to, you know, again, you know, reap all of your fruits and harvests to kind of start hunkering down in the coming months.

Laylla: And this is also a great reminder to live in the moment. You know, that harvest, that third harvest of Samhain is kind of far away. It feels far away. And so, we have all this abundance around us now. And I know we've talked in previous episodes, if you want to check that out, we have older Lammas episodes, but we talked about the first fruits festivals and celebrations that we would have with our local pagan community, and everyone would bring things from their garden. You know, and that's a wonderful way to celebrate this holiday, especially, you know, maybe you don't have a coven that's going to do a big bonfire or picnic or something like that. You know, maybe you're going to be celebrating at home by baking bread or making honey cakes.

Chelle: So, you know, I was thinking of some, what can I do for Lammas if I'm a solitary person kind of ideas. And, you know, we did talk about this is kind of where you get those first grains and herbs and things of that nature. So, we all know I can't grow shit. But, ironically enough, I can somehow grow potted herbs, which I'll post pictures of that because I know it's you got to see it to believe it kind of thing. So, I've had this sage growing for a couple of years now, and because it's been so hot and humid, it went like gangbusters, like flowered like nobody's business. Normally, I take off the leaves and I dry out those leaves and use them for my loose incense blends and and things like that. But this year, I decided I wanted to see if I could make smudge sticks. What the hell? Everybody else can make them, I can make them too. So, what I've done is I have started to cut stalks of that off, hanging them to dry, and then making those sage sticks will kind of be my own, I don't want to say Lammas ritual per se, but kind of. I'm going to I'm going to ritualize making these smudge sticks once they're dried out.

Laylla: Making a smoke stick, a incense like that, drying your herbs. I have lavender myself drying right here. Or earlier in the month, we had the episode where we talked about corn dollies, and we braided the straw or the oats or the long grass from your backyard and using knot magic to represent the season. You can do that. I can't wait to see what your incense sticks are going to look like, what those smoking bundles will look like once you're done.

Chelle: You know, I and I have a couple of cool ideas too because I just like making shit up. So, I was going to do a couple of just the sage and make like a sage bundle. But I also have mint growing. A friend of mine gave me mint, and I'm like, that is like like the most weedy weed thing there is. If you've got mint, it is growing everywhere.

Laylla: Oh, yeah.

Chelle: So, I know I can keep that alive. So, I was thinking of drying a few stalks of mint as well and making like a mint sage bundle.

Laylla: I love that. That's a great, yeah, that's fantastic. I've seen those, and some people do them very pretty. Have you ever seen the the incense bundles, the herb bundles where they're very pretty, they look more decorative than useful? But it'll be like a bundle of something, sweetgrass or sage or whatever, and then on top of it, it'll have whole flowers.

Chelle: Right, right. Like roses or, yeah.

Laylla: Yeah, or like a stick of of some type of aromatic wood or something. Has anyone burned those? Like, are you supposed to take them apart first and then just burn the incense bundle, or do you burn the whole thing, flower and all? I'm not sure how those work. If anyone out there has used one of these before, let me know. Are you supposed to take them apart, or...

Chelle: I actually have. I actually have. I got one of those here in Salem one time, and it looked it almost looked like the outer layer. Remember that time I got that pre-roll that was with rose petal paper?

Laylla: Yeah.

Chelle: Okay, this looked like like a like a herb bundle that was wrapped in like rose petals and then tied. So, it almost looked like a little rose, but had the herbs in in the inner part.

Laylla: Well, that makes sense. You could definitely burn rose petals. Yeah, that sounds like something you could just burn, just like your mint and sage together sounds like something you can just burn. I'm talking about the ones that like have whole flowers and shit on them.

Chelle: Why not? Why why why not?

Laylla: That's what I'm asking is does it work? Like, how well does it work? I've never burned one. I mean, I totally would. I just want to know, is it practical? Does it work, or do you have to take it apart first? Is it just for looks? Because I've never burned one. Let us know.

Chelle: Let us know. Email us.

Laylla: Yeah. So, anyway, now that we've done that tangent. The herbs and everything are great. Baking bread, making cookies, making any type of baked good is definitely one of the things that is traditional this time of year. I have a little story for you, Chelle, and this is going to be a spell for our listeners too. Now, my grandmother and my father are big gardeners. My dad more the weed, but you know, hey.

Chelle: Gardening's gardening.

Laylla: Gardening's gardening. But in the backyard of my grandmother's house in Seneca Falls, they had this big like huge backyard garden. And it would have tons of tomatoes and peppers and all sorts of things in it, cucumbers and zucchini and squashes and sunflowers and everything. About this time of summer, my grandmother would be harvesting a lot of her first fruits from the garden, and what she liked to do with it is bake bread. She would bake so much bread this time of year.

Chelle: This is like zucchini bread time. There's a festival. There's probably a zucchini festival right about now.

Laylla: There probably is. And I was just going to say, I was so sick of zucchini bread by the end of August.

Chelle: That and yellow squash.

Laylla: Exactly. Didn't want to look at at it anymore. I love zucchini bread, don't get me wrong, but she would bake so much of it.

Chelle: Not by the ton, you don't. That's right.

Laylla: Now, one of the interesting things that she did with this bread was she liked to give it away. She would give a lot of her abundance of her garden away to her neighbors as well as the bread that she would bake. But one of the first loaves, if not the first loaf, she would break up into four pieces, and she would put one piece at each corner of her garden in the backyard. And she told us kids that it was to keep the fairies happy. She said that that would keep the fairies, the garden fairies, happy so that next year she would have just as much, if not more, abundance from the same garden. And so, that was her little tradition. She wasn't a witch, though, very Christian, just as...

Chelle: Of course not, of course not.

Laylla: But this is something that you can do in your home as well. So, if you bake a loaf of bread, especially if it has something that you grew or maybe got at a farmers market or something like that, a nice fresh element to it, doesn't have to be zucchini. But if you bake yourself a loaf of bread and break it up into four different pieces, you can then take that to the four corners of your own property and leave it outside for the fey, for the spirits of place, for the animals, and offer that to help bring abundance and to protect the abundance of your home so that that, you know, sacrifice that loaf of bread so that that energy can come back to your house, you know, that whole cyclical nature of sacrifice and abundance. And if you, you know, if you have an apartment, you don't have land, you can break it up into four pieces and then just bring each piece to the corner of your home and offer it symbolically and then just eat it later or give it to your neighbors or donate it, again, that sacrifice element. But that was something that we did in my family that can be translated into a very magical Lughnasadh practice.

Chelle: I like that. I like that. I could like do that around the corners of my little herb garden on the deck.

Laylla: Exactly. And it doesn't have to be a huge loaf. I'm not talking about a big huge loaf. It could be a cupcake size, it could be biscuit size, doesn't have to be big. But that's a great way to incorporate, you know, the whole idea of grains and sacrifice. Because bread itself holds all of these elements. You know, you've got the earth in the in the grain. You know, you combine it with water. You've got the yeast from the air, and you bake it in fire. Now, you've got this magical creation that holds all the elements of life and has turned into something greater than its parts. So, that's magic in itself, easy peasy.

Chelle: Nice. Or, you know, one time, this was back in my more adventurous younger days, I would this time of year make bread from scratch. Like, remember when bread makers were like all the rage?

Laylla: I do.

Chelle: Yeah, I would make bread, and it was weirdly okay. I'm not a great cooker, but it was weirdly okay.

Laylla: There's really easy bread recipes now where it basically involves like tossing flour and water and yeast together and then just mixing it up and slapping it into a bread pan and sticking it in the oven.

Chelle: Oh, good.

Laylla: Yeah, all that rustic bread, it's can be really easy. But even if you don't want to bake, you can celebrate this season by celebrating abundance, by going out into the sun. I think in Ireland, one of the ways to celebrate is to go for a hike. You know, just go enjoy. Go look for a farmers market. My stepbrother and his wife have a gorgeous farm up in the Finger Lakes of New York State, and they have a U-pick flower farm. It's absolutely stunningly gorgeous to walk on this hill along the rows of flowers and look out over Seneca Lake. That's a beautiful way to celebrate, you know, Lughnasadh.

Chelle: And for our friends in the Southern Hemisphere, it is Imbolc.

Laylla: That's true.

Chelle: Which is, which is again, you know, you're talking about this is where things are stirring, things are starting to to get ready to be popping out, getting ready to start sprouting and and creating that boom of life. So, for all of our Southern Hemisphere friends, we also want to say happy Imbolc to you too. Don't want to forget that.

Laylla: Especially, you know, because that's Imbolc is my birthday, so.

Chelle: But this isn't. But this isn't.

Laylla: Dammit. I can't take August 1st as my birthday too? Oh, it's my half birthday. That counts, right?

Chelle: Okay. Okay, Winnie the Pooh, it's your half birthday. I can take that. I can take that.

Laylla: I'll take it. So, Lughnasadh is a celebration of Lugh, the sun god. He is part of the Tuatha Dé Danann, which is the fey race in Scottish and Irish lore. He's associated with all sorts of crafts. He's the god of art and forging and anything that you can think of involving creation or crafting, he is the god of. He's also associated with taking oaths and with law.

Chelle: Which kind of makes sense with the whole corn dolly thing and the bread making and the incense making. Those are all making type things.

Laylla: Oh, yeah, absolutely, crafting bread. This is if you lived in Ireland, you could get away with being a witch under the radar because a lot of these celebrations are secular. You know, they they celebrate the harvest and everything. It doesn't have anything to do with being a witch or with religion. It's kind of just like us celebrating the first day of spring or something, I guess, just as a day, not necessarily as a pagan thing.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: So, if you wanted to do that here and get away with being in the broom closet still, you can decorate with sunflowers, you can decorate with with wheat. Now, here in America, we usually associate signs of harvest with Samhain, the third harvest, more in October. But you can start decorating with some of that now, maybe put some sheaves of wheat as a decoration up or, you know, lots of flowers. You can bake your bread into different shapes to represent the sun or to represent abundance.

Chelle: What I what I always have thought is a really cool decoration for this time, it's not a decoration, but kind of per se, you know, kind of circling back to drying out the sage, drying out any kind of herbs or flowers for later use, whatever that may be, and have those bundles just hanging around your kitchen or hanging around your space. Not only are you drying them out for other purposes, but it creates an aesthetic, so to say, and and, you know, like right now, my house smells like sage. It creates multiple layers of magic.

Laylla: Being able to use something that you dried, maybe maybe you didn't grow the herbs or grow the lavender yourself, maybe you bought it at a farmers market or Trader Joe's or, you know, maybe you got it online. But if you can have that in your home and try to dry it yourself or prepare it yourself, package it, put it away for later, that's also a way to celebrate this season. You are taking this abundance, you are processing it, you're working with it, and then you're storing it away so that you can use it again later. And you can do that actually with physical things, or you can start to do that in your journal and start to talk about things in your life that you need to work through and process and then put away to come back to later.

Chelle: Choose the season to buy a shit ton of Mason jars and a couple new journals.

Laylla: There you go. It's always the season to buy a couple new journals.

Chelle: Well, I'm talking about normal people, not you.

Laylla: Hey, you get all the tarot decks and I collect journals, I guess. To each their own, right?

Chelle: Yeah, yeah.

Laylla: Now, before we kind of close this out, I do want to talk about an easy solitary ritual to celebrate Lugh. I found this on Patheos.com, which is a wonderful...

Chelle: I love that website, by the way.

Laylla: So great, so many different articles. And this is by John Beckett, and it was written July 21st of 2015, and it's a solitary ritual for Lughnasadh. And basically, the idea is to celebrate Lugh in his aspect of the master craftsman. And so, in this ritual, what you're supposed to do is find four of your crafts, four things that you are good at. Like, if you were to sit down, Chelle, and say, "All right, well, I'm not good at growing plants, let's cross that off, but..." But you could say, "I am a phenomenal herbalist. I am a fantastic witch. I make the best tea." And what's a good fourth craft for you, Chelle?

Chelle: Um, like I said, a lot of mine just comes down to creating and stocking herbs. But I really did like making my yarn dolly.

Laylla: Well, there you go. So, we'll say that you're an herbal craftsman, and your fourth one is you are the tarot reader extraordinaire. So, there's your four.

Chelle: There's that, yeah, yeah.

Laylla: So, you would take these, you'd write down your four crafts that you're good at, and then you would find a symbol, something to represent each of those crafts. And then set up your altar and put elements there for the season and each of your symbols that represents you, your four crafts. Get prepared, set your space, cast a circle if you wish, say some words about the season, call in the elements if you'd like. But the idea is to take each of those craft tools of yours and to really feel it, to think about it, to think of yourself using it, to think why you chose that particular item, and think how you might use it, you know, relate that and ask for the blessings of Lugh to that item and to that craft for you. It could be as simple or as elaborate as you'd like, but it's the idea is to take those four items that represent you and your crafts and to honor them and to honor yourself and to ask for the blessings of Lugh on those items. So, I'll put a link to that in the show notes, but it's a very nice, very easy solitary ritual that you can do for August 1st, Lammas.

Chelle: And I think with that, I think all I'm thinking now is, is weaving grains, you know, baking bread...

Laylla: It, you know, it's one of those holidays, Chelle, where it's summertime, it's hot, it's slow. I move slowly.

Chelle: It's another, Litha, I want to say Litha is probably the most forgotten holiday ever.

Laylla: This, number two.

Chelle: Yeah, probably. But I like it because of that. It's quiet. I, I like to think of myself strolling through the farmers market with a little basket, not that I've done this, but I could, and picking out the freshest tomatoes, the best cucumbers, the nicest basil, and, you know, bringing it all home, chopping it up in my beautiful sundress with a warm breeze blowing through the kitchen, and get my lemonade with some lavender in it, and just get my witchy cottagecore on, and just sit back and, you know, be all warm and comfortable and eat some delicious salads. I mean, that's a great way.

Chelle: And here I am, all unshowered, hair up in a messy bun, trailing on off to Wegmans, getting that shit in the produce aisle, and going home to my AC.

Laylla: I didn't say I did that. I just said I wanted to.

Chelle: Going to Wegmans is appropriate. I'm just...

Laylla: I can put a sundress on and go to Wegmans and try and get the same experience. That'll work.

Chelle: Exactly. When you walk in the grocery store door, they have the blower. That can like be your pseudo summer breeze.

Laylla: Oh, no. That's like the pseudo, that's like the breath of Yule coming after me. It's terrible.

Chelle: I know, right?

Laylla: But just enjoying the weather. You know, go to the beach if you can, Chelle. You can get down to the beach and get down to the ocean. You know, I can go for...

Chelle: I can keep on doing that, yeah.

Laylla: That's right. I can go for a walk in the cool woods. Wherever you are, try to celebrate and embrace the slowness, the warmth, the sultriness of this season. I mean, everything is right there. There's so much abundance. The flowers, the green, the herbs, the smells. I mean, it's beautiful. The sunrises and sunsets are decadent and gorgeous. Be in the moment.

Chelle: Oh, and the, the colorful flowers, you know, the, I think the best thing about this time of year is the color.

Laylla: Yeah.

Chelle: You know, we, we harp on that brown, gray season that we live half the year, it feels like. Every color is alive right now, you know, between vegetables and plants and flowers and trees and, and, and all the things. Everything is just so colorful right now, and I love that.

Laylla: It's a great reminder, especially with this heat, to take things slowly, you know, pay attention to yourself, hydrate, do good things for yourself, and just kind of move a little slowly and with gratitude through this abundant season, because it doesn't last.

Chelle: Oh, I can totally do that. I can totally do that.

Laylla: Yeah. That is a beautiful way to celebrate the season. You know, you don't have to do anything elaborate. Make yourself a big salad, bake yourself some bread if it's not too hot, do some canning or drying, like Chelle's drying her sage, I'm drying some lav- we should put them together.

Chelle: Ooh.

Laylla: Let's put some sage and lavender together.

Chelle: Ooh.

Laylla: Mind blown. So, yeah, there's so many things that you can do with that to celebrate the season.

Chelle: The best thing I could suggest to folks is get outside while you still can, buy some canning jars so that you can start storing away the things that you're harvesting right now, and, you know, even if you have to go to Trader Joe's and buy a bundle of flowers, good enough, go do it.

Laylla: If you're harvesting magical things or spell work that you started back in Imbolc, now is a great time to sit back and reflect, do some journaling, pull a tarot card or two, and really see where you're at with those goals. If you need to replant, if you need to restart, now's the time to do it before you get to that third harvest and things kind of...

Chelle: It's a little too late for the season, yeah, yeah.

Laylla: Yeah. Reevaluate. Reevaluate, clean things up, and start, start harvesting some of what you've sown. Reap what you sow.

Chelle: And enjoy the zucchini bread until it gets to be too much.

Laylla: Yeah, but then we hit right, the minute zucchini is too much, we immediately bounce into corn season.

Chelle: And pumpkin spice season.

Laylla: And every damn thing on the planet is either made of corn or pumpkin spice. I love pumpkin spice, don't get me wrong, but there comes a point where too much is too much.

Chelle: Yeah, so try to enjoy the abundance, don't overdo it, and, uh, hopefully you are having a wonderful Lughnasadh coming up here on August 1st, and celebrate the abundance in your life and around you everywhere. And thank you guys so much for listening to Back on the Broomstick. We hope to see you back here next week.

Laylla: Thank you so much for listening to this Lughnasadh episode of Back on the Broomstick. Please like, subscribe, leave us a review, send us a text message through the link in the show notes, or send us an email at backonthebroomstick@gmail.com. You can also check out our Instagram, our website, and our YouTube page, all Back on the Broomstick. We appreciate your comments, we love your emails, please keep them coming. We are going to be doing a Witches' Answer episode coming up here in the next few weeks, so if you want to get your questions in, email them to backonthebroomstick@gmail.com.

Chelle: Stay cool, stay hydrated.

Laylla: It may be hot, but you can keep it witchy.
