Laylla: Welcome to Back on the Broomstick, a modern witches' spoken word grimoire, where two witchy friends from way back are reconnecting to their pagan roots after a long period of mundanity. We're re-walking the path of the wise and trying out all the latest spells, rituals, and magical theory in today's witchcraft and pagan practices. So grab your wand and your incense, your cauldron and your crystals, and join us as we get back on the broomstick.

Laylla: Hi, and welcome to Back on the Broomstick. I'm Laylla.

Chelle: I'm Chelle.

Laylla: And in today's episode, we've invited the artist and creative force behind the new deck, Tarot of the Unexplained, Davezilla, to join us. Dave is a modern-day Renaissance mage who literally walks the liminal between the magical and mundane worlds. He's a corporate shaman who's worked in advertising and illustration most of his life. He's also been reading tarot since 1979, has been initiated into various traditions from Gardnerian to Santeria to Discordian and more as a true seeker of knowledge. Welcome, Dave.

Dave: Hi, thanks for having me.

Laylla: Thank you so much for being here. And actually, before we get into your fantastic new deck, Tarot of the Unexplained, that's coming out on August 5th from Red Wheel Weiser Publications, Chelle has been on pins and needles waiting for this deck, and she has a little story for you, Dave.

Chelle: So, we have a partnership with Red Wheel Weiser, and, you know, we get the catalogs in advance. So I'm looking at these catalogs last fall. Okay, we're talking September, October of 2023, and I see a deck listed there that's about cryptids. Now, in our previous podcast that we did a few years back, The Stoned Witches Hour, I am cryptid girl. I love all cryptids. If I could go and find every single one, I would. So all I wanted in life was a tarot deck that had something to do with cryptids in it. I find this, and it says it will be released, I think it said April. And I'm like, "All right, it's September. I can wait till April." And see, I'm a Gemini. I have no patience. So September to April was really hard for me. So then it gets to be about February, March, and I was like, "Laylla, you know, we're getting ready to put in an order from Red Wheel Weiser. You need to get me this deck." And—

Laylla: I've known, now I've known, this has been at the top of her list. She has been waiting. Every time I put in an order, she's like, "Laylla, can we get that deck? I know it says April, but can we get it?" I'm like, "No, no, just wait, just wait."

Chelle: So February, March comes along, and she's like, "Sorry, Chelle, it says August." I'm like, "Are you kidding me?" I said, "I'm going to go find the creator of this deck and somehow get my hands on it before August." Well, granted it was July, but I got my hands on the deck. So I have literally waited 10 months for this deck.

Dave: Mm.

Laylla: We've wanted this deck for quite a while because we are very much into paranormal stories, the Fortean phenomena, and all of that. And so we would love to talk about some of this with you.

Dave: Absolutely. Yeah, and I also, I couldn't help the deck being delayed. That wasn't on me. I was told the same thing. I was told, "Oh, it's going to be our spring highlight," is the deck. I'm like, "Great." And then it was like, spring came around and they're like, "It's coming out in August." I'm like, "Oh, okay."

Chelle: I'll be honest with you, I was ready to come hunt you down.

Dave: Well, you could have gotten from me the original deck, because at first, during COVID was when I designed it. And I printed 150 decks on my own dime, and they, I didn't spring for the boxes, I just did like velvet bags. I gave them really cheap with the decks, like, was like 25 cents each or something for a velvet bag, and I'm like, "Well, that's worth it." So I ordered 150 of those. I sold 100 of them, and the other 50 I mostly gave to friends or people that were in the deck. And I still have some laying around. But yeah, if you had asked, I would gladly have sent you one.

Chelle: Oh, don't say that.

Dave: This deck is slightly, I'll send you one now because you have to see the difference, because there are two, there are six cards that are different.

Laylla: Really? Oh, wow. Okay.

Dave: Yeah. Mainly because I couldn't get some model releases in time.

Laylla: Okay.

Dave: And I had one flat-out refusal. The skeptic of ghosts was originally James Randi, and his family thought I was making fun of him for his stage, so they flat-out refused. But some of the other ones were just more like, Avi Loeb, we just couldn't get a hold of him in time. He was a UFO expert. James "Bobo" Fay, who's a Bigfoot expert, said, "Absolutely you can," but he, that's all he wrote in the email, and he didn't sign the PDF, so they were like, "We can't use it." I'm like, "Oh, come on."

Laylla: Oh, no. Oh, no.

Dave: And then one of my friends, John, I don't know if you guys know John Tenney. He's, he's been on lots of the ghost hunting shows, and he does, he does research for almost every paranormal show. But he happens to be a neighbor of mine, and we did our first ghost hunting together like 20 years ago. And he was going to be the, the Fool card, the ghost stalker. And I had him on the card, and then he was on, in England somewhere, inaccessible on some ghost tour for like a month. And I couldn't get his, his signature back in time. So he did send it, but it didn't make it in time for the printer. They were holding as long as they could. So his card had to be replaced, too.

Laylla: Okay, so that actually brings up two questions that I have for you.

Dave: Sure.

Laylla: I do love the art. It's very vibrant. I like the amount of detail that you put into each card. But in particular, what I very much like are the court cards. I like how you've reimagined them as the fan, the skeptic, the hunter, and—

Dave: The advocate and the skeptic.

Laylla: Yes, the advocate. Those energies still kind of match what the real court cards are.

Dave: They do, but I, I love the characters. I love the realism. And are these based on real people, all of them, or just—

Dave: The skeptic of portals is my wife. The skeptic of, of knockers is my best friend, Dave. He and I have parallel lives, and we were born three days apart.

Laylla: Oh, wow.

Dave: The skeptic of saucers is Patrick from Gusoline Alley. He's the, he's the head bartender there, and it's a notorious, if you come to Detroit, everybody knows about Gusoline Alley. It's this hidden, notorious dive bar.

Laylla: Okay.

Dave: And he is a hilarious guy, so he was great for that.

Laylla: Their personalities absolutely come through in the energies of these cards, and that is one of the things that I very, very much love about this deck.

Dave: Thank you. Yeah, I tried really hard on that.

Laylla: I kind of feel it a little more of an oracle deck rather than a tarot deck because of a lot of the differences, but I love it for that, and we'll get into that a little bit later. But I am just absolutely in love with the people in this deck because they are so vibrant and so alive, and the, the energies of them, the personalities very much jump out and make the cards that much richer and deeper in detail.

Chelle: Now, I have a question for you, Dave. Now, you've picked a set of cryptids. What made you pick those particular cryptids to use in the deck? Because there's—

Dave: Hundreds. Oh, I, I agonized over that. I agonized over it. Like, some of them I couldn't figure out. Like, I really want, my favorite cryptid of all is the Tatzelwurm from Germany, and I could not find a place to put that.

Chelle: I was hoping for the Wampus Cat.

Dave: Oh. So, I have been asked by several people who have the deck, "Will you make an extension pack with more cryptids and more ghosts?" And I was like, "Well, I'll talk to Weiser. There's no reason I couldn't." So there may be, there may be more coming.

Laylla: Please do. I, I'm going to put my vote in for that because one of the workshops that I teach is on Frankenstein or Magpie decks, and the Alimentary Tarot is a very popular Kickstarter-type deck, and it's based on the idea of adding more or taking away from the deck until you make a very personal deck. I would love to see a companion oracle deck or something that could be mixed in or added to this deck. That would be very cool, especially if you could add more ghosts.

Chelle: More cryptids.

Laylla: More ladies in white, which are my favorite.

Dave: Yeah, I thought about, I really wanted, there was a whole bunch of lady in whites I wanted to do. I think you could almost do an entire deck of them.

Laylla: Yes. A whole suit. You could do a whole suit of lady in white. Absolutely.

Dave: I had to throw in a Detroit cryptid, which was the Nain Rouge, which is our local devil. The Nain Rouge has been known in Detroit since the 1700s when Cadillac first discovered the area and conquered it. We used to be a French colony, and he was told by a fortune teller that he was going to run into an imp and he was to ignore it and leave it alone. It was a local spirit. And she was basically describing like genius loci and telling them, "This is, this is a land spirit. Leave the hell alone."

Laylla: Good advice, usually.

Dave: He ignored her. He saw it along the Detroit River and beat it with his cane and said, "Be gone, you imp." And everything fell apart in his life. He ended up getting losing his military rank, his company collapsed, he lost his fortune, and he ended up in jail back in England. So—

Laylla: That's what happens when you fuck with land spirits. You mess with the genius loci.

Dave: Yeah, so, and now we have a giant, there's a giant parade every year. If you look up Nain Rouge Detroit, you will see this parade for this every year where they, half the people are trying to chase it out and half the people are like, "No, no, keep the Nain Rouge."

Laylla: Yeah, there's a lot of them like that, depending on the cryptid and the, and the location. A lot of them become a little bit like anti-heroes, maybe.

Dave: Yes. Same thing with the Hodag. The Hodag in Wisconsin is a big festival, too.

Laylla: The Mothman, and I think you, you had that with the, the bridge.

Dave: Silver Bridge, yeah.

Laylla: Yes, because that was, the Mothman, didn't the Mothman appear and like, foretold that?

Dave: Point, yeah, in Point Pleasant, Pennsylvania. I love that one.

Laylla: Oh, yeah. Pennsylvania is rife with, with cryptids. We, we have them around every corner here.

Dave: Do you really?

Laylla: Oh, yeah. Like, one of, have you heard of the Squonk?

Dave: Yes. The first time I heard of it, actually, was in the early '70s from that Genesis song. Genesis has an entire song about the Squonk legend.

Laylla: Are you kidding me?

Dave: It's in the A Trick of the Tail album. It's actually one of their bigger hits, even though people, for their old stuff.

Laylla: I feel like I've failed as a Pennsylvanian and a Gen Xer. I feel terrible.

Dave: Oh my god, you'll love it. It's all about how it cries and cries and disappears and everything.

Laylla: Yeah.

Dave: Oh, yeah.

Laylla: All right. Well, yeah, that's the Squonk. Now, I'm going to go back a little bit to something else that you said just a little bit ago, and you talked about going on ghost hunts. Now, I understand that you have seen quite a few phenomena, maybe not a cryptid, but you have experienced quite a few different phenomena in your life. Could you tell us about any time you've seen a ghost or gone on a ghost hunt?

Dave: Yeah, the first ghost hunt I went on was, like I said, with John Tenney, and it was, we got covered by the Detroit Free Press for some reason, a whole page about it back then. There wasn't a whole lot of equipment, so we had a, a night vision scope, a tape recorder, and I mean the old-fashioned, you know, the—

Laylla: With an actual like cassette tape and buttons? Great.

Dave: Yes.

Chelle: Are you talking like '80s-ish?

Dave: What's that?

Chelle: Are you talking like the '80s-ish, early '90s?

Dave: Yeah, late '80s. So, you know, handheld tape recorder with all the buttons. And then we had, I think, a, we had something for magnetic detection. It wasn't like the EMF reader like they have now, but, I mean, now there's so many apps and things that can test. Back then there wasn't that much. But our city, Royal Oak, is is like, goes back to the early 1800s, so there's a lot of very, very old graves out here. And so we were walking around in there, and we, that night we didn't happen to see anything, and I think it's because we were being followed by a whole crew of media people from the press.

Laylla: Yeah, well, that'll change a vibe, for sure.

Dave: Yeah, but my first encounter actually with something was when I was in college. I had a friend, and she and I used to like, go around in like abandoned places. Down at the end of our city, there used to be an old abandoned rest home called Manor Haven, which is an evil name already.

Chelle: That just sounds creepy and haunted.

Dave: Yeah, and we went in this place, and everything had been left from the '60s and not changed. Like, there was still clothes folded on the edges of the beds.

Laylla: Oh, wow.

Dave: The whole place, and just covered with dust. And the first thing that happened is we opened up, Carrie walked over and she opened up the, the refrigerator in the, this looked like a kitchen, and all these bags of dry blood fell out that were for transfusions.

Laylla: Oh, no.

Dave: And they were just covered in maggots. We were like, "Oh."

Chelle: I think the maggots, the maggots would have freaked me out, honestly, more than anything else.

Dave: Yeah, it wasn't, it wasn't a good start. And this is on a Saturday morning. Well, then we saw this attic, and there was like a stairwell going to the attic, like, "Oh, there's got to be something cool up there." So we, we walk all the way to the top, and then we hear a noise behind us. We both look around, and there's this dark shadow at the bottom of the stairs, and the door slams shut, and we went running back down, and we were locked in.

Laylla: Oh, no.

Dave: And we were like, "Oh, crap." And Carrie goes, "Whatever, let's just go look around the attic while we're here. Maybe it'll open up later, or we can find a window."

Chelle: That's like everything that you were there for.

Dave: Yeah, or like, "Well, maybe we'll find a window or something we can get out." I'm like, "Okay." So we go up there, and then, you know how back then they used to have rafters with all the insulation, but they never really covered—

Chelle: Oh, with no floor. Yeah.

Dave: And so, but the floor was covered with clothes, and we were wondering if the staff had been like stealing clothes from the, from the people who stayed there and just throwing it up there, or if it was just leftover from people who may have passed on, or they just, that's where they threw it all. But you couldn't see the floor at all. So she was walking, and she thought she was on the steps, and she went right through the roof and got like caught up to her shoulder. And as soon as I pulled her out, the door opened up at the bottom of the stairs. We were like—

Laylla: Oh, wow. So weird.

Dave: Yeah, real, real weird.

Chelle: See, now I would think between seeing the black figure, the door slamming and locking, and falling through the floor, I'd be like, "Should we maybe at least go down a level?"

Dave: Well, we kind of left after that. I think we're done here.

Laylla: I think we're done. Yeah.

Dave: Yeah, and another, another one I saw that I did not like at, at all was one night, I lived in a, used to live in a flat where there was, an upper and lower flat.

Laylla: Mm-hmm.

Dave: And I was dating a witch, and downstairs was a, some friends of ours, a couple, and they were both witches. And we woke up, the two of us woke up, and my girlfriend at the time, she like, palmed me, she goes, "What is that?" And up in the corner was this black pulsating mass, and it didn't seem to have any shape to it. It was like almost like smoke that was stuck in the corner.

Chelle: Almost like cloud-like.

Dave: Very, but you couldn't see through it. And we turned the light on, and it was still there. So we grabbed some, some salt and threw at it, and it just made it go away. Um, but the next morning, the downstairs neighbors met us for coffee and said, "Oh my god, we couldn't sleep. There was this black thing that showed up in our room, and it was," I'm like, "Oh my god, we did, too."

Chelle: But we were smart enough to throw salt at it.

Dave: They did, too. We don't know, we told each other we both had one and it disappeared, but it was the same time, roughly, we figured. I've never seen that thing again, and I don't want to. It was really awful.

Chelle: Now, what is your experience with seeing portals? Because I've heard that you've seen portals.

Dave: I've, yeah, there's some portals that are like, when you're, mainly in a forest, you can tell the trees are kind of bent in a way that's—

Chelle: Bent, now, right.

Dave: And you know, and you can get that feeling where there's like, there's some kind of ancestral spirit going, "Hey."

Laylla: Yeah. Yeah.

Dave: And you know that that's, that's a land spirit that's like, "I'll talk to you."

Chelle: Wink, wink, nudge, nudge.

Dave: Exactly. And I'm, I'm all for those, so I will follow them. But I've never had any thing where I went through those and ended up like in another place or another time or anything like that, like Charles Fort has reported people having done. But definitely have had some good experiences with land spirits that way.

Chelle: It almost reminds me of like going in a fairy circle or going down a fairy path, you know. You're going down it, and you're not sure you're staying in this reality. So that's kind of the same thing.

Dave: Yeah, absolutely. It's like, I know if you go in those things, too, you can just sit down and close your eyes and, you know, and start going on like a meditative journey through and see what they're going to show you. And usually it's a lot easier to talk to them that way than just hanging out and waiting for them to show up.

Laylla: And a lot of those places, like particularly you were talking about genius loci and land spirits, when you go into the woods or you go to some of these sacred places or, you know, to a river or something, there's, sometimes you can just feel these places energetically. As you're walking along, you're like, "Oh, you know, this feels like, this has a really, really nice vibe. This has a really nice feeling to it. I'm going to sit here and maybe meditate with this space for a little while." Those, I think, are more common than people think.

Dave: Right. And, and then there's also the reverse. There's times when you feel those when you're like, they definitely do not want humans here.

Laylla: Right. Yeah, they're like, "Get out."

Chelle: That was, that was kind of my last experience, um, the last time I was in Laylla's backyard.

Dave: Oh, really?

Chelle: She, she led me down a path where she's creating like a ritual circle, and we went down there late, late-ish at night, and it really felt like we were infiltrating a party that we were not invited to. And it was like we were being stared at like, "What the hell are you doing here?" Like, it was literally like we walked in on a dinner party that we weren't invited at, and it was, it was, it was weird because it was definitely like, it wasn't a bad feeling, but it was a, "We don't want you here," feeling.

Dave: Yeah. Right. Most of the time it's not antagonistic, it's just kind of like, "This isn't your place."

Chelle: Kind of like, "You're invading my space," kind of.

Dave: "Who invited you, exactly? Can I see the invitation?"

Chelle: Exactly.

Laylla: Okay, here's a question for Chelle, you, or Davezilla. As magic users, as people who feel energy and work with energy, if you encountered a place like that, say, say you're on vacation and you go to an Airbnb in a cool place, and you walk into this house and the vibe is, "Get out." What do you do? Like, what, what do you reach for? Like, what would you do as, as someone who, who's an energetic magic worker-type person?

Dave: Well, one thing I always bring with me is, um, I'll never not have it on me.

Laylla: He's reaching in his pocket.

Dave: You know what, um, Elegua looks like in, in Santeria, the little clay head with the face?

Laylla: Yeah.

Dave: Okay, so you can also get a, a stone that's fed to him, and it's, it's a, like a extension of him that you can bring with you. And I feel a hundred times safer because he's, he's the Orisha of travel, and he's kind of like Mercury. He's like travel and obstacles and tricksterness. So I bring him with me, but also, um, I did have that happen. There was a, there's a hotel I had to stay at for work one time that was notoriously haunted in San Francisco, and they gave me the haunted room, of course. I'm like, "Well, of course."

Laylla: They must have sensed something about you and put you in that.

Dave: Yeah, and I, I took a really creepy picture that I think I still have. I'm almost positive I do. I just don't know where, but I know I have it. A face in the window looking back at me, and it's, I'm up on several floors up.

Laylla: Oh, wow.

Dave: But it was kind of disturbing. But yeah, that, those, I usually just like, sometimes I'll, I'll draw a pentacle on the pillow and on the door with my finger and just, you know, and talk to Elegua and be like, "The shit out of here."

Chelle: I'm an overpacker. Laylla and I went on a road trip a few months back. I just pack a full-on altar. I just bring the whole shit with me. Um, I actually do have a, a separate travel altar, and when I am going and staying somewhere, that is part of my packing list.

Davezilla: Yeah, a lot of times I wear my, like, as to the, um, the beads that you see, because each of those is fed to a different orisha, and they're, those are pretty potent. But, um, sometimes I don't like carrying them because they're, they're heavy and they're sweaty when you wear them. And, um, a lot of times I just, I don't like people touching them, and always when you travel, the, um, TSA wants to pick them up. "Oh, these are pretty."

Chelle: People are very handsy when it, when it comes to ritual stuff, people get all of a sudden real handsy.

Davezilla: Especially with bright colored things, yeah.

Laylla: But Davezilla literally pulled out of his pocket right here and now his protection talisman.

Davezilla: Orisha, yeah.

Laylla: Having something on you that's charged for protection is great. You can use incense smoke, you can use music, all sorts of things to create a temporary safe space for you, even if you can't, if you're not going to be there long enough to make friends or at least get along with the genius loci or with the energies of that place. There's temporary protection that you can do.

Chelle: Essentials and things like that, yeah.

Davezilla: Yeah, and I got the, um, pentacle idea from, um, a Hindu friend of mine who said, "Oh, I draw the Om on my pillow before I go to bed if I'm having bad dreams." And I'm like, "Oh, that's a great idea." And I tried it, and it does work.

Laylla: You can even get those fancy pillow sprays and do it, be all cute like that if you wanted to. Yep. I love that. I'm, I'm a sigil person. I like sigils.

Davezilla: I love sigils.

Laylla: Yes, I know you are a, uh, a Discordian. You're also, um, chaos magic. I'm into a little bit of that. But I love, I love sigils and drawing sigils on your pillows, on your blankets, on your windows, on your doors are, yeah, fabulous. Fabulous magic.

Davezilla: My, um, signature in my, in my artwork is Dave, but it's also a pentacle, but I made a sigil, a sigil out of my name, so.

Laylla: I've seen your art on, uh, Instagram and other social media. You, you have your art up there. I just recently saw an Aquarius witch, I guess you'd done a little while back, that I was like,

Davezilla: No, I didn't work on that. I just was, I was posting that just because I was so amazed by that book. Ivo Dominguez wrote that book, and I was like, "That's so good."

Laylla: Oh, oh, no, it was a picture.

Davezilla: Oh, the picture, oh, yeah, yeah, I did do, I did do a whole series of witches by the zodiac signs.

Laylla: Yes, that, yeah, no, the picture that you had done, not the book, that I am actually desperately waiting to get my little Aquarian hands on. But no, it was, it was an art piece that you had done.

Davezilla: Yes, I did do this year, um, 42 paintings of witches this year, and each one was like, one was like storm witch or swamp witch or whatever, and they're all, most of them were done in sort of a, early Art Nouveau sort of style, which I like working in a lot.

Laylla: That's something that I really love about this deck, because so often nowadays, not that there's anything wrong with this, but you'll see a famous author or a famous witch or, or magic user of some type work with an artist to create a deck, which is fabulous. We get beautiful works of art, really creative, interesting things. But I love that this is one person. This is you. You did the art here. You came up with the meanings for the cards. This is all your input from start to finish, which gives it a whole different feel than something that's created by multiple people. Um, not that one is better than the other, I just think it's different, and I, I enjoy the, the seamlessness between.

Chelle: Actually, that, that, that was one thing that stood out to me. I was like, "Wow, sweet, someone who did all of it." Yeah. All of it. Um, and, and again, not, not knocking art, you know, but it, it, it's rare to see someone who's done all of it, and that stuck out to me with this deck. And, by the way, since we're speaking about that, kudos on the book, because I love that you actually, I have a card I'm, I'm holding for down the road in a minute, I love the fact that you actually have colored pictures of each card in the book. You know, the little pamphlet books are great, but this is like a comprehensive book in pamphlet size, and I love that.

Davezilla: Yeah, it was really tough, um, I worked really hard with Weiser's, uh, art director, Catherine, to make sure I had enough room to get in like the correspondences, the description of the card, the meaning of the card, and a meditation if possible, and also whatever phenomenon would be either experienced that you wanted to pull that card for, or that may be caused by that card, because I did notice that this card seemed to bring up a lot of unusual energies too. It's a weird deck.

Laylla: It is, and I, I love that you reimagined each of the suits. You know, you went with, um, the knocking sticks and ghosts, portals, and flying saucers instead of wands, swords, cups, and pentacles.

Davezilla: Yeah, I tried to stick with the elements, but not the, yeah, not the same suits.

Laylla: Yeah, you definitely kept, you kept the feeling of it, although I'm going to have to say, I am not a fan of,

Chelle: Say it, Laylla. Say it, I know what you're going to say.

Laylla: No, you think you know what I'm going to say. You think I'm going to talk about the gilding, but we'll get into that in a minute. Um, but no, I, um, I do feel that wands are air rather than fire, and swords are fire. Half of us, I think, out here believe that way. But I like how you reimagined all of the suits for this deck. In the Tarot of the Unexplained, the suits are a little bit different. You have made the suits, swords are ghosts, pentacles are flying saucers, portals are cups, and wands become the Sasquatch knocking sticks. And if I'm correct, with the knocking sticks, that's the same Sasquatch going through a long mural, is that right?

Davezilla: It's correct, she's going through a whole story.

Laylla: Now, did you paint that all as one piece, or?

Davezilla: Yeah, it's, it's a nine-foot Illustrator board.

Laylla: Wow.

Davezilla: Going, yeah, it was really hard to break that apart and make it work, but I did get it to work.

Laylla: There's stories within stories here in your suits, beyond just what the regular tarot meanings are. And now, you have a long history of tarot, not just of art. You've been reading cards since like 1979.

Davezilla: Yep.

Laylla: You are a tarot reader.

Davezilla: This was just something I decided to do, yeah.

Laylla: No, you, you have a solid background. I do love the different stories that are told, like the portals, I just happened to open it up to it, I know the fan of portals.

Davezilla: That's, yeah, these two lips kind of backwards, do fit together.

Laylla: They match up together.

Davezilla: Yeah.

Laylla: And you have a lot of instances of things like that in the cards where they, they tell a bigger story than just what a traditional deck would tell.

Davezilla: Yeah, and some of that was an idea I took from, um, a deck I used for a long time, the Witches Tarot by Ellen Cannon Reed.

Chelle: That's, that's Chelle's favorite.

Chelle: I still use it to this day.

Davezilla: Yeah, that is my, yeah, that was my, I think I had that deck the longest, and it's finally, mine is so worn out I can't even use it. There's,

Chelle: I got three copies, so, yeah, I had to get, yeah.

Davezilla: Oh, nice. Um, yeah, that was a brilliant deck, and I had the original with the, that was borderless. I know they redid it with borders, and I was like,

Chelle: Yeah, mine doesn't have borders.

Davezilla: Good, because the bordered one looks awful. But the, uh, original one was so good, and I loved how a lot of times the moon or whatever planet would be would line up with another card up in the corner, and you could make different types of arrangements, and you'd just see the cards and the relationships between them differently, and that's what made me think, "Oh, god, I need to do things like that, like take these cards and think about which ones actually I've had interesting relationships with, and then put those together in this deck so that other people pick up on that too, hopefully."

Laylla: Now, I, I said earlier that gives a little bit of an oracle vibe to me, partly because a lot of the, the meanings are different. They're not exactly the same. There's so much different here.

Davezilla: Yeah.

Laylla: Which is fine. I love that in, in someone's deck. It should be. It shouldn't be cookie-cutter or something.

Davezilla: Yeah, and I think part of that is, to this day, I have never owned a, a Rider-Waite deck.

Laylla: Didn't you start out with the Thoth deck? Like, who would do that to themselves?

Davezilla: Thoth deck, worst, worst fucking deck for a beginner. I didn't know any better. I didn't know any better. I knew who Aleister Crowley was as a teenager. I'm like, "Oh, this is probably a good deck, Aleister Crowley."

Chelle: But I can trump you, Dave, because before I got that Witches Tarot, I thought the Aquarian deck was the way to go.

Davezilla: Oh, the one that's in Italian? Yeah, I have that one too, yeah. Yeah, that was real tough. I bought that one too, I'm like, "Oh, those are nice illustrations," and I'm like, "I don't read Italian very well."

Chelle: Yeah, yeah. Not, not the best introduction.

Davezilla: No. And I love Pamela Colman Smith's art. I think she's brilliant. She did so much for the, for tarot, but that kind of style, it doesn't really appeal to me too much, so I was like,

Chelle: And I think that's, that's what's made me a tarot collector, um, because one secret I need to tell you is I have about 200 different decks. It's an obsession, we'll call, I don't know if we'll call it an addiction or obsession, but,

Davezilla: It grows.

Chelle: It grows every time I leave the house.

Laylla: I have access to a spreadsheet so I don't accidentally get her one that she already has.

Davezilla: Oh my god, wow.

Chelle: Yeah, we're at spreadsheet level. But what I like about this deck is I like, the vibe is, it's something about the blues and the purples. This is very blues and purples heavy.

Davezilla: Mhm.

Chelle: And it kind of, I don't want to say it touches a deeper spiritual chord, but a little bit. Um, and I don't know if it's the color combinations or my fascination with everything you've combined into this, because,

Laylla: She likes cryptids and ghost stories more than just about anything.

Chelle: What I love more than that is UFOs. So this is like, this is like the everything I've ever wanted in a deck right here.

Davezilla: Nice. Oh, I'm glad, I'm glad you like the color.

Chelle: And for that, thank you.

Davezilla: You're welcome. Um, yeah, I, the deck color was a little different for me, but it was, it just seemed like it was the right kind of colors, like using a lot of cayenne reds and, yeah, and deep purples and a lot of deep sea greens and things like that, colors that aren't normally used in decks.

Chelle: Before I unleash Laylla on you, what made you, or what would make any, any person, and, and this is just an honest question, what made you pick the gilded edges?

Davezilla: I did not. That was Weiser's call.

Chelle: Okay.

Davezilla: I did, that was a surprise to me.

Chelle: Okay. Why?

Laylla: They're not my favorite. I, I think they look pretty. They look beautiful. You look at it, it's gorgeous. But I am a user of decks. I am not a looker-at-er of tarot decks. So I've been shuffling your deck, not even a lot, and the gilding already started to like, bend and like, flake, and, you know, it's pretty, it stands up okay, but from other gilded decks that I've had, and just from using it for a couple days, if I heavily use this deck, those gilded edges are going to look terrible.

Chelle: And it's, it's the curse of the gilded deck. It's not any deck in particular. It's, it's, we've talked about other gilded decks and the same thing, and, and I think that sometimes that, I'm glad it wasn't your choice.

Davezilla: No, no, I didn't even know they were doing that.

Laylla: It does look pretty, and I know people like the gilding, but I'm just going to tell you right now, listeners, it does have silver gilding, and it looks beautiful. It goes great with the color of the deck. But like most gilding, you're going to want to be very careful how you shuffle, how often you shuffle, because the gilding tends to chip and flake and dent very, very easily. So your beautiful gilded edges, if you use this type of deck a lot, um, will show signs of wear pretty quickly. If you're using them for meditation or journal pulls, uh, you don't have to worry about that quite so much. The back of the deck has a nice, uh, you can't tell if it's reversed or not. I am a fan of,

Davezilla: That's, that's important to me.

Laylla: Yeah, me too.

Davezilla: That was one thing I didn't like about the Witches Tarot, was you can always tell when a card's reversed.

Chelle: Because the pentacle was either upright or it was upside down.

Davezilla: And it was slightly up above the center too.

Chelle: Yep.

Davezilla: Um, and the back of mine is actually, if you look really close, there's a pieces from each of the four suits. Each suit, right? Yeah. And skulls and, yeah, this is great.

Davezilla: Not the skulls, they're UFOs, there's, um, the sticks are the little pointy things sticking out.

Laylla: Yeah, it's, it's very simple, but also full of meaning, which I fully expect from someone with an illustration and chaos magic background.

Davezilla: That was my favorite part, was doing the back.

Laylla: So as I was going through the Major Arcana, I did notice that they all have, I love that you have Indrid Cold in here, so freaking creepy. So creepy.

Davezilla: He's so creepy.

Laylla: But I loved that you had the astrological stars on a lot of, not all of, but most of the Major Arcana, and it matches up with like the general, I know that there's a lot of different ideas, but there's a general idea of what sign goes with which.

Davezilla: When I was researching that, I realized how much tarot, uh, creators disagree on stars. And, um, I went generally with what the, the, the old Golden Dawn did, because they seemed to have the best and the most consistent approach to, to the astrology. Um, and other readers I've spoken with have said the exact same thing. They're like, "Yeah, the Golden Dawn's the only ones that got it right. Everybody else just kind of guessed at it," you know? But there was a couple cards I saw that had 13 different constellations.

Chelle: But I think it adds an extra depth to these cards that I really like. I have already picked a favorite card. It's Extraction, card number 12.

Davezilla: Oh, yeah, that's a, that's a cool one.

Chelle: And, honestly, other than the person being swept up by the UFO, the next thing that popped right out to me was those constellations. And that was really what, almost what my focus went on, almost like my focus kind of ignored the rest of the picture, so to say, and honed in just on that constellation I'm looking at.

Davezilla: And I, a lot of people have told me they immediately knew that was the Hanged Man card, because they were like, "He's in the position of the Hanged Man." I'm like, "Yes."

Chelle: On purpose.

Davezilla: Yep.

Chelle: I wanted to quick ask you, speaking of the, of the UFO piece to this, I too, when I was in ninth grade, which was just a few minutes ago, when I was in ninth grade, most of my town saw three distinct UFOs, people calling the police, similar story to you, people calling the local Army Reserve base, and basically all of us being told that we're nuts-o-cuckoo and that really didn't happen, even though a town of about 40,000 people saw it.

Davezilla: Right.

Chelle: Did your experience seeing a UFO as a younger person, did that influence any of this suit of cards at all?

Davezilla: Absolutely, yeah. I, same thing, like when I was a little kid, I didn't know if there was aliens or not, but when I actually saw this thing, and then us, our entire neighborhood being told, "It's an advertising plane," and I'm like, "Planes don't hover, unless you have a Harrier jump jet, and those things would have been blasting exhaust into our face, and we would have been burned." And, and also, Harrier jump jets aren't round, they're triangular kind of.

Laylla: Yeah.

Davezilla: And we all saw this thing. It was not marked with, uh, you know, there was no military.

Laylla: No advertising.

Davezilla: Just, yeah, it was just, it was just a set of lights that went around, and that was it. Everything else was dark.

Chelle: And I noticed that on the cards, they have little sets of lights going around. And so that's why I was wondering, did that experience influence,

Davezilla: That, and I, I also kind of wanted to pay an homage to the old '50s kind of look of flying saucers being like, and I used to work at the Los Alamos National Laboratory, and I got, we got to go down to Roswell a couple times, and so I got really,

Laylla: Probably can't talk about any of that, can you?

Davezilla: Um, I can't, not, not lot, um, but,

Chelle: If he tells us, he'll have to take our tarot decks away. No.

Davezilla: Take mine away. Yeah, no, it's, we're the ones that go away.

Laylla: That's not funny. That's not funny.

Davezilla: No, it's, yeah, you get erased.

Laylla: You get disappeared.

Davezilla: You get disappeared, yeah. Um, I didn't work on anything big, big enough like that to, to worry about it, but it was kind of cool when I was there, they had just started the Human Genome Project.

Laylla: Oh.

Davezilla: So that was kind of cool to see, and they were working on a particle accelerator, and a lot of cool stuff. It was neat. Yeah, it was a really neat experience, and working with these people that were so intelligent that they never even wrote their math out. It was just in their head. All those complex things you always see on blackboards in pictures and stuff, it's like, these guys just did it in their head in seconds, you know? And, and they're always like, "Oh, yeah, yeah, you're right, yeah, that math checks out." You're like, "Wait, no one got out of calculator."

Laylla: So after lunch, did they take you down and show you the spaceship?

Davezilla: I tried so many times, and so many ways to ask them, and they would just be real quiet for a second and kind of look down, and then change the subject. And they would never respond with a yes or no, they would never deny or anything, they just change subject. Now, there were things that they would deny, like if I asked about a certain thing that was in the, not in my clearance level, they would just go, "You know, I can't go there," which is kind of how we were told to talk about things, like if someone asks you, "How was work today?" you say, "It was great, I worked," you know?

Laylla: Gotcha. Oh, what is that code?

Davezilla: But they would not, but that was one area they just were not funny about.

Laylla: Not funny. No, no wink-wink, nudge-nudge, just change the subject.

Chelle: But was that, was any of that ever code for, "We have alien bodies in the basement"?

Davezilla: Oh, I know they did. I know they did.

Laylla: Absolutely, we know they do. We know they do. We have, the military has practically admitted it. We know.

Davezilla: Yeah, I didn't get to see it, but they, they have something. I know they do.

Chelle: So you've experienced everything but a cryptid. Are you a cryptid hunter? Are you seeking out finding a cryptid? And if not, why not?

Davezilla: My theory is cryptids are, are, are genius loci.

Laylla: Okay.

Laylla: I can get on board with that.

Davezilla: I think that they're spiritual beings that appear and disappear and don't want to be seen by most people, and the people that don't want to see them and aren't expecting to see them are the ones that are going to see them.

Chelle: Going along with that thought, apparently I'm from a weird place in upstate New York, because we also had a stretch when, I was probably in about eighth grade, where for two weeks all around our town there was Bigfoot sightings for two weeks straight, which, I'm from a region just a tad bit south of the Adirondack Mountains.

Davezilla: Mhm.

Chelle: So it's plausible. And near the Catskill Mountains as well. But for about two weeks straight, every single day in the news, there was Bigfoot sightings in the area. So do you think that some of these cryptids sometimes want to come out and be seen? Because how, how can a bunch of people see this constantly?

Davezilla: I think there's also, you know, like groupthink of mass, where a lot of times people just start getting caught up in it.

Laylla: Like hysteria.

Davezilla: They want to see it too, and they see a squirrel or a, or a bear, and all of a sudden that's a, that's Bigfoot, you know, especially,

Chelle: There is black bear from where I'm from, so it could have been a black bear.

Davezilla: Black bear, they look so much like, like Bigfoot.

Laylla: And you are talking about an area of New York State where people regularly go hunting and shoot cows that they think are deer, so.

Chelle: Factual statements. Factual statements. Yeah.

Laylla: So it's possible they saw a squirrel and went, "Bigfoot!"

Davezilla: Yeah, the only thing that throws a wrench in it for me is up in parts of Michigan where they see the, the Dogman. I don't know if you've read about that one.

Laylla: Mhm.

Davezilla: But these people say it's basically looks like a wolf, looks like a werewolf, and it is attacked people and animals, so there's people with literal bites out of them from this thing.

Laylla: Oh, wow.

Davezilla: So that's, that one kind of throws me off, because I'm like, okay, there's something out there, whether it's a rabid wolf or a, because we do have wolves in Michigan, whether it's that, or if there actually is something strange out there. But so many people have seen it, and they're very, very specific about their descriptions and real, real consistent. Um, the only ones I don't believe is when people tell me, "It had glowing eyes," because I'm like, eyes don't emit light. If they did, you'd be blind.

Laylla: Maybe they just see the, the reflection from the tapetum, you know, and then, yeah.

Davezilla: Yeah, if they said, if they said its eyes were reflecting light like a dog's, I'd go, okay.

Laylla: Yeah.

Davezilla: But a lot of the Dogman people, that's what they said. They said their eyes were pink like a dog's.

Laylla: That doesn't sound as cool, though.

Davezilla: But I don't hear it, but other people are like, "It was glowing red eyes."

Chelle: That sounds better. They get, they get it for dramatic effect.

Davezilla: Lay off the Jack Daniel's, okay?

Laylla: Travel Channel, call us. Send the three of us. We'll go cryptid hunting across the country. We'll bring a healthy dose of skepticism and all the tools we can muster, and we'll see if we can find them. I'm not leaving Massachusetts till I find that Pukwudgie, man.

Dave: That's got to be on the list, all right?

Laylla: The Pukwudgie. That's a good one.

Chelle: Right next to my Wampus cat.

Laylla: There you go. He's right up there. So, I do have Okay, we're going to get serious for a second because I have a terrible complaint about your deck.

Dave: Okay.

Laylla: One of my favorite, favorite myths, legends, ghost stories are all of the Lady in White stories across the whole country. Love them. I love the lore behind them. I love the truth in the legends. I'm just absolutely fascinated with those ghost stories in particular. And one of the most famous, maybe the originator of Lady in White stories, is La Llorona. I knew you were going to mention that card. And yeah, she is the This is like a cautionary tale. This is a woman who her husband or her lover took another lover, and in a fit of madness and rage, she drowned their children. And then realized what she had done, came to her senses, and either killed herself or, either way, spent eternity trying to find her children and make up for this. How did you come up with her as the Empress? Because those two things seem completely opposite.

Dave: She kept popping up to me every time I looked for something else.

Chelle: She wanted to be the Empress is what she was saying.

Dave: She wanted to. She did. And I was like, that was the only card where I had like a spirit literally like insisting they be in the deck and which card it was.

Laylla: That kind of makes sense.

Dave: Okay, then. Because I really didn't I really wanted to do some of those English white ladies or gray ladies that made a little more sense. And I also thought about some of the spiritual, like, enlightened kind of enlightened master kind of people that would have been better for an Empress. But that one, she just was I'm like, okay, you want this card, I'll put you in.

Chelle: Never argue with an insistent woman.

Dave: No, not La Llorona especially.

Laylla: But, no, the Empress is more like that that nurturing, fulfilling Maybe who she was in life, you know?

Dave: Yeah, but there are there are a lot of tales of her where she protects other people's children. And I was like, oh, okay.

Laylla: That's true. Sometimes people do call upon La Llorona to protect children. But I don't know how common that is. So, I don't know. I'm not really sure if I can buy La Llorona as as the Empress. I mean, that's okay. It's all right to re-envision these cards to have different meanings. And the meaning for La Llorona does not have to match the Empress just because she's in that Empress position. I mean, La Llorona, she's the wailing woman, and she's in some legends, she's out to kill other people's children to take them for her own. So, it's very difficult to see it as an Empress card replacement. But as its own card, as its own thing, I can see it as that. So, I can see that. I can I can get into that.

Dave: And I also saw one version of the tale where she was blamed for the for the murder of the children and she didn't do it.

Laylla: Yeah, it's certainly a tale of a mother who's grieving so hard for her children that she's walking the earth forever looking for them. So, so I can see that a little bit. It's still still a little bit of a difficult one for me to see as the Empress. But if I see her as the card, La Llorona, in your deck, it makes perfect sense. She fits in beautifully with the description. I don't know how she would feel about threesomes, but I suppose that that could be part of it.

Dave: Well, you need one little bit of traditional in there, yeah. But

Laylla: So, if I I do have to separate her a little bit from the traditional idea of the Empress in the deck and look a little bit beyond that, like some of the other cards in your deck have different stories to tell.

Dave: Yeah, like the Lovers card, you cannot we had such a different approach on that that I was like, all right, you're this is going to throw people off a lot, but that's too bad.

Laylla: And that's okay. And that's why we go to different types of decks to get someone else's viewpoint and opinion and different angle on this card. So, but that's a little bit why I said I have a hard time looking at it as like a traditional tarot deck because some of the cards

Dave: Yeah, it's just not, and that's the beauty of it.

Laylla: Yeah. That's what when I pick decks to read for myself or to do like tarot journaling, I like to pick decks that have non-traditional imagery and non-traditional meanings because I I am so steeped in the the Rider-Waite-Smith, you know, idea of what they are, that this really helps me tap into a different part of my magical self, my subconscious. So, I I really love your deck for that, but I definitely could not call it a traditional deck.

Dave: No, not at all. This is one of my friends locally, and he is also really into cryptids, really into ghosts, and he has a podcast, too. So, Chris, he actually came up with a lot of the ideas while we were talking over beer. And one of the ideas he had that I loved was the Lovers card, that he said, what if instead of two people, you had two spirits in one body? And I said, oh, that'd be cool. He goes, maybe it's a skinchanger, maybe it's like some kind of shape-shifting thing. And I'm like, that's a great idea. So, we thought of using the starts with skin and ends with walker, and I won't say the rest of the word because I got a when I was posting these to Instagram every night, I got a nice little comment from someone that said, no. And I DM'd the person back, and it turned out he was a part of Navajo Nation, and he said, I said, did I get the details wrong? He goes, no, no, they're very good. Please do not call that energy up on us or on you, you will regret it. So, just please find a different, safer shape-shifter. We thought, okay, well, the Irish Púca is pretty safe. But same thing, the Púca can appear as a woman, as a as a rabbit, as a horse that takes you off on a ride, or or all kinds of things. So,

Laylla: Can offer choices, you know? It's can be a trickster, can be I love that card. I think that's a great card.

Dave: Which and relationships can be all those things, too. You don't know what you're getting.

Laylla: Yeah, yeah. I think this deck is fantastic for that. Not only does it scratch the itch of all these different paranormal and fantastic events, you know, that Chelle and I are fascinated with anyway, it's fun. But it also has very serious, very solid, very good tarot background in it, some of it reimagined, which I absolutely adore.

Chelle: That's the point of why we want more than Rider-Waite-Smith decks is because we want these things reimagined. You know, I want to see the Yeti as the Hermit. These are why we we as a people, me as a obsessed, addictive tarot collector, this is why I always am seeking out a bigger, badder, better deck because I don't want every single Hermit card to mean exactly the same thing every time. You know, this strikes a different chord to me as a cryptid lover than the Hermit card is going to. You know what I'm saying?

Dave: Absolutely. And also, when I look at the Rider-Waite deck, I see a lot of very gender-typical roles, too, which I don't think apply to society right now.

Chelle: Right.

Dave: A lot of those things I tried to like eliminate or make them fit because I I feel bad for people who don't see themselves in those cards when everything is done as a very, you know, very old-fashioned binary relationship type thing.

Chelle: We don't live in the Rider-Waite world anymore.

Dave: No, no. And that's one thing I have a big problem with. So, I was like, well, I I can make my cards a little more fluid in that.

Chelle: And much like you, you know, I've been reading cards for 30 years. I didn't buy a Rider-Waite version until within the last five or so years because I don't know. I was one of those, that's too basic. But when I when I got my hands on that Ellen Cannon Reed Witches Tarot, that spoke to me in a way that Rider-Waite didn't. And this speaks to me in a way that Rider-Waite doesn't. I like that it's different. That's that's 110% of the reason why I like it, is because it's not like every other damn deck you're going to get.

Dave: Yeah, thanks. I appreciate that a lot, actually. Yeah, I didn't I didn't want to be like everybody else because, I mean, I have a stellium in Aquarius, there's no way I want to be like everybody else.

Chelle: And I would also like to just quickly mention, we are giving you tons of credit and tons of kudos here. I have an unsung hero that I would like to to thank and give a shout-out to, and that is your wife for pushing you to do this. So, kudos to your wife. Tell her I thank her because it was worth the year wait.

Dave: Yeah, it was yeah, she was she's great. It was funny, too, because she's like a real grounded atheist and doesn't this is all woo-woo stuff to her, so. But she actually a lot of times would give me some of the best ideas for like for the deck.

Chelle: And if nothing else, she gave you the confidence and the push and the drive and the okay to take the two years and do it, and it was worth it.

Dave: Yeah, I don't know if when people say like, oh, I'm going to do a deck someday, I'm like, do you really have any idea how long that takes? Like, I spent 900 hours of drawing, 200 hours writing, and I didn't that doesn't count edits, that doesn't count revisions, that doesn't count research time, which was god knows how many times. I mean,

Chelle: Figuring out how to cut up that Bigfoot painting.

Dave: How many uh I was so lucky that year in in uh during COVID, Hulu Plus had so many uh cryptid and UFO and ghost shows on. I just could just watch all of them while I was drawing.

Chelle: Shh, I'm studying. Shh, I'm studying.

Dave: Basically, yeah. I'm sure it drove my rest of my family nuts to see that.

Laylla: Before you came on here, Chelle and I were talking, and I did the math and realized that we started our The Stoned Witches Hour paranormal show right around the same time you started this deck. So, I told Chelle, you obviously made this for her. You must have been channeling Chelle.

Chelle: He's like, there's some crazy girl from New York who really has to have this deck or she'll die.

Laylla: And I think what's good about it is it's a blend of old and new because there are traditional symbols and ideas in here. There there's importance in the archetypes and in, you know, having things be as close as possible to what people know is true because that that activates part of our brain. That activates that that whole thing where we're all seeing the same images in these archetypes.

Chelle: Cognitive recollection, yeah.

Laylla: Yeah. And but at the same time, it also has enough new vision to keep you interested. So, I it's a very good blending of old ideas, old archetypes, and what you're going to be familiar enough with as a regular tarot reader with this deck to be able to pick it up and read it without even having to know the supernatural side of all of it. But you'll get so much more out of it if you go into these legends, if you go into the cards and the art themselves and see beyond the traditional. So, that's going to give you a lot of good magical insight. I'm not surprised that an atheist helped you with this because you don't have to believe in magic or any of that to use tarot. Tarot is an amazing mental health journey aid.

Dave: Yeah, I think it's first and foremost a psychological tool, and secondly, it's divination. Absolutely. Another card kind of if we did another extension thing of this, I would love to do creatures and spirits from Africa because they never get mentioned. There's so many of them. And what I've learned just from being in Santería and Palo Mayombe and seeing there's a whole range of spirits that regular European witchcraft doesn't encounter and doesn't see, and that we get to see, and I see all of them now. And it's just a completely they're just some of them are just so strange and hard to comprehend from a Western viewpoint, and you really have to change your brain a little to understand things from the African point of view of where everything's community first.

Laylla: To see from a different way, that's magic. And you're absolutely right. A lot of our magic and our traditions and folklore is heavily, you know, European influenced. And so to have ideas from other parts of the world with the same land spirits are land spirits all over the world. Everybody, every culture has some type of idea of these energies. And so to to talk about all of them, there's a lot of power in that. I would love it if you did a companion deck.

Chelle: We're giving this guy like the next five years of work. He's got to do an expansion, he's got to do another deck. But I I think that this is a kick-ass deck, and if you buy into this motif and are a tarot reader, you will be able to easily use this deck. And I might bitch about the gilding, but it's very pretty. My only complaint about the gilding, this is a funny story. So, I took these to my mundane work, and I was I was shuffling them at work, and I'm, you know, I'm like, oh, I'm going to check these out. And, you know, you know work lights. The way the lights shined on them and the way I had the cards angled, I I thought for a second I burned my retina.

Dave: Yeah, it's like chrome, those edges. It's like chrome. It is mirror-like finish.

Laylla: We haven't even touched on spreads that you like. I know you have a book about AI magic or people who use AI magic coming up in the fall. We haven't even gone there.

Chelle: I was going to say, we might just have to have him back.

Dave: Okay. I would love that.

Laylla: Certainly, if you do an expansion pack, and if anybody out there has his original deck, email us. We want it.

Dave: Oh, I can send you guys I'll send you guys I still have some, so.

Chelle: Oh, wow. That would be like Christmas and Yule and my birthday all together.

Dave: Yeah, they're they're they're different enough that it's it's it's worth seeing the difference in that.

Chelle: That would be very cool.

Dave: And the flavor's different of it of this one.

Laylla: Well, I I am definitely a fan of your art. Like I said, I I followed you for a minute on some of your socials and and not just this deck, but your other art is beautiful. Where can people find you?

Dave: Yeah, I have Davezilla and Davezilla Media. If it's Davezilla Media, that's going to be where there's going to be more art. On Threads, I tend to post a lot more discussions about magic and things like this. So, if you really want to know like learn spells for me or learn what I'm reading about or thinking about, that's a really good place to follow me. And

Chelle: If people want to purchase your deck directly from you, can they get that at Davezilla.com?

Dave: No, Hex Support.

Chelle: Okay.

Dave: Hexsupport.club is my site for books and decks and stuff.

Laylla: Tarot of the Unexplained comes out early August, right? So, pretty soon. August 5th, so you can get your copy.

Chelle: Laylla, you forgot the tagline of this deck, which is such a Gen X thing for us. This is the deck that Fox Mulder would have used.

Dave: Yeah, that was one of my taglines. My other tagline is weird times call for weird tools.

Chelle: Hell yeah. Be weird. Embrace the weird. I love it. All right. Well, thank you so much, Dave, for being on.

Dave: Thank you. It was great.

Laylla: We're definitely going to try to bug you to be back on because I have so many more questions. Chaos magic, more tarot, more things. Let's talk. All right. Well, thank you again so much.

Dave: Thank you.

Laylla: Huge thank you to Davezilla and to Red Wheel Weiser for the Tarot of the Unexplained, coming out August 5th wherever you buy your tarot decks. Thank you so much for listening to Back on the Broomstick. We'll see you next week. Be wise, be wicked, and keep it witchy.
