Speaker 1: Welcome to Back on the Broomstick, a modern witches spoken word grimoire, where two witchy friends from way back are reconnecting to their pagan roots after a long period of mundanity. We're re-walking the path of the wise and trying out all the latest spells, rituals, and magical theory in today's witchcraft and pagan practices.

Laylla: So grab your wand and your incense, your cauldron and your crystals,

Speaker 1: and join us as we get back on the broomstick.

Laylla: Welcome to Back on the Broomstick. I'm Laylla, and today Chelle and I are honored to be joined by the delightful Mara Starling. Mara is a Welsh folk witch, a tarot reader, and an author of the books Welsh Witchcraft, A Guide to the Spirits, Lore, and Magic of Wales, and her upcoming book is called Welsh Fairies, A Guide to the Lore, Legends, Denizens, and Deities of the Otherworld. Welcome Mara Starling. And before I start, let me see if I can say hello in Welsh. Croeso, Bryn Hyfryd Da. No?

Speaker 2: Very close. So it's croeso.

Laylla: Croeso.

Speaker 2: Croeso. And then the second one, Bryn Hyfryd Da.

Laylla: Bryn Hyfryd Da. Okay, so it's close.

Speaker 2: Although if you want if you want a little cheat though, um up in the north of Wales, up in the Gog's where I'm from, uh we don't say Bryn Hyfryd Da because we always think that sounds a bit too posh, so we shorten it to Pnwn Da, Pnwn Da.

Laylla: Da. Pnwn Da. Okay, so we're getting the the local dialects going on there. But I tried. I tried. I love that you speak Welsh, and I think that's very very cool. I only speak one language, so I'm always fascinated by anyone who's multilingual. All right, so we recently saw you at Llewellyn Con, and you said that we were stuck with you, and we took you up on it, and now we've got you here. We're delighted to have you, so thank you for being here with us, Mara.

Speaker 2: Oh, thank you so much for asking me. Yes, so you didn't take my offer of buying some anti-Mara fungal cream then, just sticking with the rash.

Laylla: No, we didn't. We passed. We passed.

Speaker 1: No, we passed on that. We were like, bring it on. We'd like to have more Mara in our lives, so we're very glad to have you here.

Speaker 2: Oh, marvelous.

Laylla: Now I also noticed while we were looking through your books, we were very lucky to be able to read an advanced copy of your book Welsh Fairies, which is wonderful. But one of the things I found out that had nothing to do with Wales or fairies is that you and Shell are both Geminis.

Speaker 2: Mhm.

Speaker 1: Oh yeah, that's true.

Speaker 2: Yes, I am a Gemini.

Laylla: Both of us, all four of us. Yeah, no, Aquarius over here, I'm staying out of that mess, but So now for Chelle, she is very much a Gemini. A lot of her personality is being a Gemini. Is that do you find that's true for you too, Mara?

Speaker 2: Oh, definitely. So I fought it for many years because I wasn't a huge astrology person for a long time, and I tried to fight against, you know, the stereotypes of being a Gemini, but unfortunately, I am or fortunately, depending on how you look at it, I am very much uh a very stereotypical Gemini. I'm always torn between who I want to be, what I want to do. Um I feel like I have numerous personalities hidden within me, and it's always a battle trying to figure out which one takes to the surface that day. Um I constantly have various interests going on in the background, and I'm drawn in 70 million different directions.

Speaker 1: That's that's that's my life. That's my life.

Speaker 2: Gosh.

Laylla: Well, that sounds very familiar.

Speaker 2: It's fun, isn't it?

Laylla: Actually, I didn't know that. I didn't I didn't make the Gemini connection, so thanks Laylla.

Speaker 2: No problem.

Laylla: You're outnumbered now.

Speaker 1: I hope that. I always have been, Shell. There's two of you. So you grew up in the northern part of Wales on a little island, uh the Isle of Anglesey. In your town, I believe it was native Welsh speaking.

Speaker 2: Yes, so I grew up in a little place called Aberffraw, and Aberffraw sits on the Oh gosh, let me figure out my directions. Um it's kind of in the Never Eat Shredded Wheat southwest southwest of the island, um facing the Irish Sea. So we were looking over towards the mainland of Wales on one side, so the mountains of Eryri, and then on the other side, on a very very clear day, if you were very lucky, you might see all the way over to Ireland. And in that area, in in that specific location, um the population was predominantly Welsh speaking. So a lot of people talk about the Welsh language in terms of it being a minority language, and it is true. We are a minority language, but in my experience, in my upbringing, it was a majority language because pretty much nobody around me spoke English growing up. All of my friends, we always communicated to each other in Welsh. My family at home, we only spoke to each other in Welsh. Um in school, it was all carried out through the Welsh language. The only time we spoke English at school was during English lessons. So I think I looked into it once, and I think by now, at this point, because it is unfortunately a very or fortunately for me growing up, but unfortunately for the reason I'm about to say, Aberffraw, the village itself is a rather beautiful place, rather gorgeous, filled with beaches and coastal paths and all sorts of wonderful history attached to it. Um and so it's become a very popular area for a lot of uh and I might be getting a bit too political in saying this now, but a lot of very rich English people like to buy up the houses, and um they don't live in them. They don't live in the houses. They just have them as holiday homes. And so a lot of the locals are getting pushed out at the minute. So I think it's dropped a lot since I was a child and I was growing up there. Um I think when I was growing up there, it was around 70% of the people who lived in the village were first language Welsh speakers and spoke it as their native tongue. And now it's down to around 60, so it's gone down around 10% over the last few years due to those issues, but it's still a very predominantly Welsh speaking area. You'll hear it as you walk along the streets. And um it wasn't until I moved away to university. I went to university in England to Manchester Metropolitan. Uh that's when I started speaking English regularly. Before that, it was all just through the medium of Welsh.

Laylla: Oh wow. I understand that the Welsh witchcraft tradition is very much a a bardic tradition. It's a lot of folklore and poetry and songs and and that type of thing. Has Has your relationship with the Welsh language, did that help shape your witchcraft or your entry into magic?

Speaker 2: Oh definitely. So when it comes to my relationship with my cultural identity and my language, I genuinely believe that becoming a witch helped embolden my sense of pride in being Welsh because and I've said this on a few other podcasts in the past, so I'm sorry if anybody's listening and they're hearing me repeat myself again, but I grew up with this almost sense of shame for who I was and what I was, uh mostly because, you know, on one hand you've got the fact that I was a very uh loud and proud queer person living in a very rural area that was, you know, can at sometimes be difficult. Like it was filled There was a lot of judgment. There was a lot of um you know, I was very much one of the very few queer people in my area, and so I didn't feel like I fit fully, and I spent a lot of my very early teens feeling like I didn't belong so much that I couldn't wait to leave. I couldn't wait to pack up and move to some urbanized area where I felt like I'd be more accepted. And it's only through finding witchcraft, finding magic, finding paganism, um that I kind of re-embraced that side and aspect of my of my identity. Uh it was through finding people like Christopher Hughes, who is the chief of the Anglesey Druid Order, and he not only is, like you know, the chief of a Druid order that was rooted in the local traditions of Wales, but he was also a very queer person, and he was very authentically himself and celebrated for being himself. He's now not only is he uh a chief of the Anglesey Druid Order, but he's a drag queen on Welsh television. He's a television presenter, an mortician.

Laylla: He's fabulous.

Speaker 2: He is. And I think his fabulous nature helped me to see I'm not alone here. I'm not alone in being who I am, and I can live as a very much fully Welsh person and a very much fully queer person, and they don't contradict each other. So that was really like enlightening and shifting in my mentality for when I was growing up. But then also because So when you grow up speaking Welsh as your first language, you kind of take it for granted. You not You don't see it as something special because it's just You just speak it every day.

Laylla: It's your It's your everyday life.

Speaker 2: Yeah, exactly. And at school or at home, we would sometimes be um reprimanded for speaking English. So for example, in school, if the teachers heard you speaking English in the corridors, they would sometimes give you a bit of a telling off. Similarly, if I went home and I started speaking to my father in English, he'd get angry and he'd like get grumpy with me, and he would turn around and in in Welsh he would turn around and say, I don't speak that um colonizer language that you're speaking to me now. Speak to me in your native tongue and stuff. So there is this sense of when you become a rebellious teenager, one of the things you do as a Welsh speaker is you kind of renounce the language a little bit and you're like, well, that's the language of my teachers, my parents. I'm different. I'm rebellious, you know, I'm edgy. I don't want to speak that language. And it was through coming into paganism and discovering the magic of my landscape and the magic of not just the culture, but the language itself, the amount of magic that is woven into the language, the culture, and the expression of our culture that I re-embraced that side of me and I was like, no, I don't have any shame towards my language or my identity. I love it. And it was actually a huge privilege that I got to grow up speaking this language, so I should embrace it fully. So yeah, I think my Welsh culture and my identity and specifically the language were huge in influencing the way that I started treading my way down this path.

Laylla: Are you training to be a druid as well or have you completed that training?

Speaker 2: So I have kind I I suppose completed it cuz I did a training course with the Anglesey Druid Order, the And um yeah, I'm now an awenydd of the Anglesey Druid Order, and it's it's odd because I've always had a little bit of a clashing when it comes to druidry because when you look at druidry within its modern expression, especially, you know, the revivalist druid orders that are very popular in the UK, in America, in Ireland and such, a lot of them are very influenced by uh the overculture of England. So like uh a lot of the movements in the early 20th century to establish what we call pagan druidry, there was obviously revivalist druidry long before pagan druidry came into the picture. But when pagan druidry reared its head, it had this very English middle class kind of expression. And for the longest time, I struggled to grapple that as somebody who grew up, you know, on a council estate, which is essentially poverty in um a very small Welsh rural area. I couldn't quite relate to this kind of middle class English expression of druidry that I kept seeing everywhere. And so for the longest time, I kind of fought against being labeled a druid cuz I was like, oh no, I'm not a druid, I'm a witch. You know, I'm a I'm a nails in the dirt, bottles filled with piss kind of witch, you know. I don't do that kind of um dressing in white and going off to celebrate on the Tower of London druid. I'm I'm a I'm a witch. And it was through Christopher really that I kind of caught over that feeling because Christopher reminded me that a lot of what became druidry in its modern sense within the pagan spheres was influenced and inspired tremendously by Welsh culture. We have this thing in Wales called the Eisteddfod, the National Eisteddfod. And the National Eisteddfod is a celebration of culture and art and specifically poetry, and it's one of the biggest, most important festivals within the Welsh cultural context. And the folks who run the Eisteddfod, who make sure that it moves the way it should move and such, are called um Gorsedd y Beirdd. And Gorsedd y Beirdd are essentially an order of druids. They're an order of druids, but they're they're cultural druids, not religious druids. And those druids were established in the way that we see them now by a guy called Iolo Morganwg, who was also the influence for what we now refer to as modern pagan druidry. So a lot of modern pagan druidry draws upon those same sources that the Eisteddfod in Wales draws upon. And it was through realizing that connection and being like, oh crap, this is like my heritage and the legacy of my people here um through realizing that and also coming to the realization that when it comes to, you know, what's the difference between a witch and a druid in a modern context and coming to the realization that there isn't that much of a difference really. We're very similar. Um I finally kind of accepted it, joined the Anglesey Druid Order, and now yeah, I'm a druid, and it's still weird. It's still weird to call myself a druid because I still see myself first and foremost as a witch. Um but yes, I am now an awenydd of the Anglesey Druid Order tradition of druidry.

Laylla: Very cool.

Speaker 1: Nice. I have something that I have to show you, and this is going to be the funniest thing you've ever seen. And I I I have a friend uh from England who sometimes calls me a dumb American. This is my dumb American moment for you. So you recently did a video um on the Mabinogi and which was fabulous by the way. But I have to show you a little thing I made as a coven project. All right, dear listeners, what you can't see is that Shell is getting picture of a project she made for her Celtic traditionalist coven when they were studying the Mabinogion.

Laylla: Oh my goodness.

Speaker 1: It's my mouse on the gallows. I made little gallows with forks, and I put a mouse That is my mouse with the gallows. I used a tissue box to hold up the forks. I was proud of it. I was proud of it, and that pictures of my mouse on the gallows have made it all across Salem, Massachusetts.

Speaker 2: I love it. I think it's fabulous. Oh my gosh.

Laylla: Isn't that great? It's gorgeous. I love it. Yeah.

Speaker 1: That was my craft project for the Mabinogi.

Speaker 2: I love it, and I love that part of the story as well.

Speaker 1: How can you not read that part of the story and not get little forks and put a mouse gallows on it?

Laylla: Most people don't, Shell.

Speaker 1: Absolutely not. All right, now that I've embarrassed myself completely, Laylla.

Laylla: I got you, Shell. Back to the interview. So Mara, you talked a lot about being first and foremost a witch, and I I'm with you there. I feel that deep in my bones, that connection to the earth and to feeling the magic in that way, I guess, being connected more to the cycles and to the earth that reminds me a lot of the animist view of magic and of paganism. And it And I see that a lot in Welsh mythology and in the stories. There's a lot of that. The trees are alive, the brooks are alive, the wells are alive. I mean everything has a spirit to it, and the place seems to be crawling with magic everywhere. You know, how do you connect to spirits of land and spirits of place?

Speaker 2: Oh well, you're you're absolutely correct. Throughout um all of Welsh lore really, there is this impression that the world is inherently alive. And you know, that kind of hints towards this animistic worldview, which I think is really interesting considering, you know, a big um kind of critique that a lot of modern pagans like myself get from the more academic scholarly side of this stuff cuz you know, we're not the only ones who look to the Mabinogi and to mythology and such and to the poetry of of old Wales. We're not the only ones who look to these things. There's a whole academic, you know, sphere that loves to explore these things. And one criticism that I often get and people like me often get is that there's no evidence, you know, to point towards the idea that a lot of these things are ancient, that they extend back into some pre-Christian past, that the evidence we do have is very minimal if it's there at all, and that we're silly and we're stupid for assuming that these characters are gods or that there's anything pagan going on in these stories. And one thing that kind of trips people up who have that opinion, who have this view and mentality that there is no inherent paganism or inherent pre-Christian thought behind these stories is I will always turn to them and I'll ask, well, how do you explain then the concept of annwn and ffydd? So annwn and ffydd are these two concepts within um the Mabinogi, which comes up specifically mostly in the fourth branch, the very fourth ending kind of branch of the four branches itself. Um and in that one, there's this idea that magicians cannot only change the external appearance of people, but they can also change the very soul, the very nature of something. And when they talk about the very soul, the very core spirit that something has, that's not limited to humans. And that in and of itself, the idea that humans are not the only things with souls is inherently not Christian. You know, there's something in that that isn't very Christian in its cosmology because, you know, the Christian cosmology dictates that we are kind of above everything else, that we are special because we have a soul, because we are the children of God created in God's image, and we have a soul, whereas the animals and the plants are made for us to do what we will with by God, shaped by God. And this idea within Welsh mythology that animals have a soul, that trees have a soul, that kind of contradicts that. So it's the people who turn around and kind of say, oh well, you know, these stories, they're only Christian. They're Christian medieval stories. I always turn around and I say that to them and I go, well, what what about this? That's not very Christian. How do you explain that? And none of them can ever seem to answer that question. But a lot of my view of the world, my worldview is shaped by that sort of mentality. You know, I don't believe that I am above or greater than anything else that exists on this planet with me. I'm part of a cycle of a, you know, of a constantly moving, shifting cycle of life that just happens to be that I am a human and not something else, but that doesn't mean that I'm better than anything else. And so when I talk about my relationship with connecting to the land, I always say that the main thing that I keep in mind throughout all of it is that I interact with the world around me in the exact same way that I might interact with other people. So my relationship with the trees, my relationship with the spirits of the land, my relationship with the sacred wells, it's not too dissimilar to my relationship with my friends, my neighbors, my the people around me. You know, you do little things every day to keep that sense of community, to understand that connection you have to them. So my entire philosophy is essentially to treat the world as if it is inhabited by people, but to also remember that those people are not always human. And I hope that makes some kind of sense.

Laylla: I love that. Yeah, no, that I I love that philosophy. That makes perfect sense. Now the other thing with Wales, there's a lot of magical places. There's got to be some wonderful magic to coming to some of these places, to coming to a lake that has been sacred or to a well that is sacred. Do you have any particular areas that you like to go to where you truly feel, oh yeah, this place this place is magic.

Speaker 2: Oh so many. Um I think I always shock people because having grown up on Anglesey, there's a joke that we say a lot on the island, especially the pagan folk. We tend to say this joke, which is you can't kick a rock in Anglesey without having hit somehow an ancient monument here and there. You know, you're going to kick a rock and then you'll find out that rock is actually a 3,000 year old rock from a tomb that was just down the road or something. Everywhere you look, there are just these ancient monuments that extend back into prehistory. They extend back thousands of years and kind of tell the stories of the history of humanity in that area. And I think people are shocked sometimes because when I refer to the places that are most sacred to me, they're not always the most obvious. So I know that um a lot of people that I've taken home with me to give them tours and such cuz I love to do that. I love to take friends with me back to the island and you know, just show them around the fantastical spots that we have across the area. And one of the places that was near to me is um a burial chamber called And is very special to me. I will say that's straight away that this place is special. I'm not um saying that it's less special than the other places I'll mention. But you know, is very obviously special because it's a huge burial chamber that sits on a cliff overlooking the sea. So you're in this liminal place where the land, the sea, and the sky are constantly singing together in harmony. And it's this huge huge burial chamber that you can walk into. It's probably the size of my bloody home on the inside. It's just massive. And inside are these huge stones, huge megaliths that have been carved into. So they have these spiral like structures all over them. And walking in there is like walking into some hidden chamber of magic from a fantasy movie straight out of Lord of the Rings or something like that. And you know, that is a 5-minute drive down the road from where I grew up. So people assume that that would be like one of the places that I mentioned first and foremost when I'm talking about sacred sites and places that I feel strongly attached to. And whilst yes, like beautiful, gorgeous, it sits on this cliff that's between two coves, so it's also on the beach and it's just amazing. And my mentor, my old mentor Julie or Lettuce as we used to call her, um she used to take me there and we used to practice magic on top of it. And because it's a burial chamber and it's kind of in this mound shape, it's literally a hollow hill. So it's like a hill on the top of this cliff that you can walk into and you can imagine fairies living there and such. And if you were to go on top of it, you used to be able to lie on top of the very kind of crest of the hill. And when you lay down there at night on a very clear night when all the stars were visible, which is quite rare in Wales cuz we get a lot of rain, but it was possible. It did happen every now and then. If you lay there and look up, you felt like you were in a snow globe or something and the entire sky just opened up around you. So that place is very special. But a place that I personally feel so deeply connected to and it always kind of brings me back to life if I'm in a bit of a rut and I have to like you know, try and reinvigorate myself is this place in Aberffraw called or we called it locally a pig. Now translates to literally the black nose. And there's a lot of um places in Wales that are called the black nose. And it's because we have these kind of like black volcanic rocks. And the uh the peaks or the peaks of these cliffs and hills, they kind of look like a nose jutting out into the landscape. So they look like a nose of black rock. And so they're called There's lots of places called that. We called it locally a pig, which is just the peak. So it's the very peak of the village. And it's this one cliff that kind of if you stand there and you look outwards, completely surrounding you if you look in one direction is the sea. You can look over the sea to the mountains of Eryri, the Snowdon mountains. Um if you look around you, there's all these islands out in the sea as well. And it's just this huge expanse of water, and you're on this patch of grass with these volcanic rocks like I said, just jutting out these black rocks. And the waves are hitting against them beautifully. And if you turn in the other direction, you've got the island kind of just extending out before you, the village in the background looking tiny, all these little paths that meander down the different coastal paths and beaches and such. And it's just glorious. And there are these little stones on the floor that just kind of jut out of the grass. And for years and years and years, that place was where I used to go to to practice my magic as a teenager. And I used to go there whenever I was feeling low, whenever I was feeling down, if I'd just had a fight with my parents or something, I'd run over there and I'd just lay on the ground and I would let all my emotions out. And I remember once I was speaking to a friend of mine who is very much into like the archaeology of the island and such. And I was saying how I'm quite sad that there aren't any like ancient monuments in Aberffraw cuz Aberffraw is a very historic village. And we have like the remnants of an old Roman fort, the remnants of an old castle. It's the It used to be the capital of the kingdom of Gwynedd where the princes of Wales used to sit and live and such. So it's got a lot of history, but not really ancient history, so I was like always sad about that. And then my friend who you know, was very into the ancient archaeology of Anglesey, he was like, what do you mean? It's it's very ancient. We have We have like uh evidence of humans living in Aberffraw for upwards of 10,000 years. Like we know that there's been a lot of active uh things going on there. And I told this friend about, you know, the little stones on the floor and such and this place where I can see the land, sea, and sky again just singing in harmony and how at peace I feel there. And he asked me, oh, can you show it to me on a map? Can you show me where exactly it is? And I did, and I showed it to him, and he went, oh yeah, that's the location of an ancient cairn. So those rocks that you're looking at are actually they used to at one point form a stone circle that went in a circle, and then there was a pile of rocks in the middle, and it would have been an ancient tomb. And I had no idea about any of this. I just used to go there and feel that kind of spiral of energy that existed there and never knew that for thousands of years the ancestral people of this landscape have been going to that exact location to honor and to scatter the remains of their dead. So it was literally a place of reverence for thousands upon thousands of years. And so that place is always the most sacred place to me. It's the place that I feel most at home because it's not obvious. It's not like these kind of burial chambers and standing stones and stone circles that are really obvious to the to the eye that look like, you know, Stonehenge and Avebury and such. It's a very subtle place, and I felt I must have felt something there to have this deep feeling of comfort there. And yet I had no idea until this friend pointed out

Speaker 3: You knew without knowing. You knew without knowing.

Speaker 2: Absolutely. I knew without knowing, and the place must have revealed its story to me on some kind of energetic level long before I ever knew it for certain. And since then I've looked into it further and deeper and connected to it on a much grander scale, but it's just that that sensation, that feeling that I must have tapped into something much older than myself as a teenager, and it's still so important to me to this day makes it just that much more special, I think.

Speaker 3: It's those connections that we make without knowing that can sometimes be very very deep, you know? And I love how you said that there was a spiral of energy because I know that a lot of the old stone carvings and things will be spirals, you know? There'll be spirals in a lot of the old artwork. And when you talk about fairies or fairy magic, it's circles and spirals. So I I think that's very cool that that that that's how the energy felt to you was it was kind of spiraled up into you, you know? It That makes a lot of sense with how I understand magic works. With that being said that you found, you know, some very cool spaces, you can't kick a rock without finding literally kick a sacred rock. Um I know you like to also collect hag stones. Is it true that hag stones are a way to see fairies by looking through them or is it a protection from fairies? Have you heard any lore like that about hag stones?

Speaker 2: So it's kind of both, and this is the thing with fairy folklore in general. It's something that um I try and make clear in the book, but also just whenever I talk about them is that when you're looking into fairy folklore, it is filled with contradiction, so much contradiction. So if you find a book that tells you, you know, and this is just an example, this is not true at all. This is just something I'm making up off the top of my head. If you find a book that tells you fairies always have green skin, you will find three other books that will go, no no, fairies always have blue skin, fairies always have green skin, fairies always have yellow skin, fairies always You know, it will completely contradict each other. And I think that's something that people don't really necessarily value about fairy folklore is just how contradictory nature it is because it's we we can't within our cultural context within the modern world, we can't comprehend that because we've had literal You know, not just decades, we've had centuries now since uh people like Charles Darwin created the classification of the species of Earth, and science is now at the forefront of everything that we do. And science is obsessed, isn't it, with classifying things and compartmentalizing them and being like this is this and that is that. So when it comes to folklore, you can't do that very neatly. Um you can't really put things into those boxes and be like this is this, that's that. We've classified this is this because it just doesn't work. And you see it a lot with fairy folklore when it comes to the names we give fairies. You know, people who are very interested in things like Dungeons and Dragons, for example, might find it really odd that a goblin, a troll, a elf, and fairy, they're all the same thing in folklore. They're all very much the same thing. It's just different terms depending on region, depending They're not like, you know, they're not species terms. They're not things that we use to separate different species of fairies. It just depends on who is labeling them, what the story's focus is, and what period of time it was being told. And it's the same for these little traditions like with hag stones. So in the modern day, you see a lot of people talking about how they are kind of portals or gateways for the eye to look into the realm of fairy. So that is true. There are some pieces of folklore from not just in Wales, but across Britain that talks about that very idea, that, you know, they act as almost a spy hole or a peep hole into the world of fairy.

Speaker 3: Like a looking glass into the fairy. Yeah.

Speaker 2: Yes, exactly. And it makes sense because um when we look at the folklore behind, you know, where fairies live within a Welsh or a Celtic context, they often live in subterranean abodes. So they live under the ground, under the stones. So the idea that looking through a hole in a rock um to see into their world, to see things clearly makes sense, especially when you compare it to stories of like there are many stories that talk of people who accidentally find their way into the other world by walking through caves and things like that. And what is a hag stone, but just like a tiny version of a cave, isn't it? So it makes sense that that's there. But then we also see these folk magical traditions where people will um gather hag stones and they will tie them up onto their barns or onto their front door, and it'll keep fairies away. So it's kind of like in a very contradictory fashion. They are both tools that will help you see into the world of fairy and connect with fairy, but then there are also things that keep them away as well. And we see that a lot because like there's also um one of my favorite ones is with the plant that's called gorse. So we have gorse that grows everywhere across the coastal paths and the rural like headlands of Wales and such. And they're these prickling plants with these gorgeous yellow flowers, and if you ever pick the flowers and kind of rub them between your fingers and then sniff, they smell like coconut, and it's amazing. And um they're all over, and a lot of farmers see them as either a nuisance or a help because they can act as kind of a hedge or a path or a or a um kind of a barrier between the different fields and such. And then when we read about them in folklore, you have some stories that are like, oh, the fairies love the gorse. They love it so much. They wear the lovely smelling flowers on their headdresses and on their hats and such. And then you find other stories that are like they hate the gorse plant so much. They hate how prickly it is. They hate how stabby it is. And so if you ever want to keep the fairies away, put gorse in your windows and such, and they will not come near you. So it's it's really fun to look at these kind of contradictory ideas behind fairies. For everything that you will find that definitively says a fairy is this, you will easily find 20 other books that says the opposite. And yeah, some people might be frustrated with that, but I love it.

Speaker 3: I feel like that's a way to get in trouble with the fairies. It's almost like you don't really know the rules, and that's where things go awry.

Speaker 2: Oh, definitely.

Speaker 3: Now you mentioned a couple ways to keep fairies out of your house. I know a couple more. So keeping in mind the fact that this will be both true and not true, let me know if you have heard of any of this lore and if it if if it really applies or not. So I have heard that if you have a If you make a wreath of oak leaves and ivy leaves and put that outside your door, is that something that will keep fairies away?

Speaker 2: Oh, it's not one that I've particularly heard um especially because when it comes to the oak tree, the oak tree within a Welsh context is actually sacred to the fairies. They dance underneath its its branches on um full moon nights and such. And uh so possibly but

Speaker 3: That wouldn't make sense. Okay, so how about I've also heard if you put a broom or a besom bristles up outside your door that the fay won't be able to come in because they'll be so distracted counting all the bristles on your broom that they won't come in the door.

Speaker 2: Yes, I've heard this one, and it it kind of it relates to a a huge uh plethora of superstitions that kind of uh work in the same way. And what we'll see with ones like that where they have to count the bristles of the broom is you see this parallel then between fairies and a lot of beliefs in a more Christian context surrounding demons. We see the same thing kind of happen there. Um there's you know, in some cultures it's believed that salt will keep demons away, and in our culture we kind of just assume that that must be because they don't like salt. They just don't like the the the component that is salt. But in some cultures the reason they can't cross the line of salt is for that same reason because they get distracted and they have to count every single grain of salt. Um so yeah, I've have I have heard that one. Um to go with the tree one as well, it 's really interesting because one tree that's really really important within a Welsh cultural context for keeping fairies away is the rowan. The rowan tree or I think in America at some point it was called the mountain ash and such. It's it's a tree that has these like gorgeous red berries in the autumn, and it's believed that they are very sacred um very very beautiful and magical trees that will ward away the mischief of the fairies. And you'll see often in um old houses in Wales where they've built kind of the house with in the front garden or in sometimes in the back garden, they'll have two rowan trees going as if it's making a kind of archway by the front door to keep them away. Um but yeah, that one is interesting to me because there's a parallel there with what we see in England. So in England we they have the the same kind of belief that the rowan tree is sacred, but rather than fairies in most parts of England, they say that the rowan tree keeps witches away. So it's kind of like, oh, you see that parallel there between witchcraft and fairies again.

Speaker 3: Right. I guess anytime they're lumping anytime of mischievous spirit in there, we get tossed into the mix, I think.

Speaker 2: Yes.

Speaker 3: Well, we are a good time at a party, you know. One last thing is I've heard you should never tell a fairy your real name.

Speaker 2: I've heard that. Yes. Um it is true. So it's it's kind of uh complicated one because it goes both ways. So within um obviously I I can only speak for my culture with any authority, but within Welsh culture um it was believed that names in and of themselves hold power. They hold power and they hold, you know, some kind of authority over the person of which that name belonged to. So it was very important that spirits, fairies, any kind of otherworldly uh entity did not learn your true name, or else they have power and dominion over you, especially if you give it of your free will, if you literally just tell them my name is this and it is yours. Like for example, some people might do that with their gods in modern paganism, you know? They might say I dedicate myself to you, but if you were to say I dedicate name to you, then that's giving them power and dominion over you. But what I found really fascinating about our stories in particular is that we have similar stories where this is reversed, where finding out the name of a fairy also grants you power over that fairy. So um it's very similar to the story of Rumpelstiltskin where, you know, you have to find out Rumpelstiltskin's name in order to be able to, you know, have any power over him or to stop him from doing what he's doing. We have similar stories with fairies here. Specifically, there's one story about a fairy called Penelope, and she was um abducted and captured by a mortal man who found her very beautiful and wanted wanted her. He lusted after her basically. And she said She refused essentially to do anything for him or to live with him. And he begged her and begged her to marry him, to be with him and such, and she said, I will never fall for you unless that is that you find my name, then I will be powerless in your presence and you will own me. And he ended up accidentally finding her name, which was Penelope. And once he knew her name, she could not leave his house. She was under his dominion then. So it kind of goes both ways. This whole idea that names have an inherent magic to them, an inherent power to them um and you know, it's it's one of the reasons not to not to get too personal now, but I I often get people who will message me and such on Facebook or who will just make these grand blog posts and such about me, which is really odd. Um they'll make these posts and they'll be like, Mara can't be a uh an authority on Welsh things and she must be lying about being Welsh because the name Mara Sterling is not Welsh, you know? The names Mara and Sterling aren't Welsh names. And I always have to turn around and go number one, I am trans and I did change my name, so this is not my birth name. And number two, have you never heard of a uh you know, an author name? And there's a reason I don't give out my real name. Exactly. It's like a magical name. Mara Sterling is the name that I've chosen to go by publicly. Doesn't mean it's my true name. It just means

Speaker 3: And that's what I always thought about magical names is that that people selected a magical name because they didn't want to you know, like I don't necessarily love my birth name, but it is mine and it is my own. But I also have a magical name and and I keep those two separate, and I feel like my real name, like you said, is kind of a sacred thing, whereas that magical name I kind of would use more out for me more out in a in a magically public setting. I know some people would do it the opposite, but it it's kind of like keep that to yourself. You do have power. Even in the real world in 2024, people do have power if they have your name.

Speaker 2: Absolutely, and that's kind of the way I see it. So yeah, that's definitely a thing, the the name thing, and it's something that I've kind of taken very on board when it comes to giving names out and such.

Speaker 3: I also think that names are very powerful. I do think that the act of taking a new name, whether it's for a magical reason or a personal reason, whether your life has changed, whether you have changed, or if you want to go in a different direction in your life. Uh one common way that people change their names when their life has changed is marriage. There's a big reasons to take names. It's always a big decision when you change your name, and so there's a lot of power in that. And having multiple names, I know a lot of witches have many many names for different parts of who you are. You can name different parts of your personality. Like Shell says, she has her legal given name that she has a relationship with, and then she has a magical name, but she uses those names in different settings.

Speaker 2: I just never knew it was it went both ways. I thought it was just if they knew your name, you had power. I didn't realize that if you found out a fairy's name, it was that same exchange of power. Yeah, and it it's very similar to um So there's this common motif within not just Welsh lore, but also in Irish and Scottish folklore and even in some European nations and such. They have this idea woven into their folklore surrounding fairies of the fairy bride, which is, you know, the the fairy maiden who marries a mortal man. And in those stories, sometimes the fairies have some kind of magical skin. So we see that in in stories of like the selkies or the swan maidens and things like that. You know, they'll have a skin which can help them transform back into animal form. And throughout their entire existence, they are um constantly looking for this skin because it'll set them free and such. You don't see that so much in Welsh folklore. We don't have like as much of the animal transforming fairies, but what we have instead is either this naming thing where, you know, fairies will not be abducted and be married by mortals unless they know their name, or there's usually a taboo placed on the marriage. So we have like the idea that, you know, a fairy will marry a human, but if that human ever touches her with iron or if that human ever abuses her physically, that's it. They're gone then forever. They get to return back to their fairy home.

Speaker 3: That should be a rule for anyone, I think, really. Yes, definitely. Absolutely. Just quickly that you mentioned another uh another I don't want to say superstition, but you mentioned another folklore piece with the iron, cold iron, I hear it referred. You know, you should bring cold iron near the fay. Is that a thing?

Speaker 2: Oh, definitely. We see it in stories, and it it can be very obvious, very um kind of clear in the stories. There's stories where women will place an iron bar across their baby's crib or sometimes, and this sounds dangerous, so I do not recommend anybody does it, but sometimes they'll take a pair of scissors or sheets that have been made out of iron and they'll hang it in the in the shape of an X above their baby's crib. So these were ways of yeah these were ways of trying to avert the fairy's attention. Yeah, to keep them from stealing the fairy babies away. You see it similarly with humans who have like a bit of paranoia, mortals who have a bit of paranoia about the fairies perhaps coming into their homes, so they'll keep an iron dagger under their pillow. We have also within our Welsh context there are these fairies called the gwyllion which live out on the mountains, and they're described as being these almost like haggard looking old women who wander around the mountains, and they can lead you off the the beaten path and into danger's way in its peril and such. And a lot of the travelers

Speaker 3: What I hope to be when I grow up, by the way.

Speaker 2: Same. Very much same. So the travelers on these mountain paths would often have a iron knife that they'd keep in their pockets, and if these gwyllion ever appeared before them, all they had to do was pull the iron knife out and the fairy would basically vanish into nothingness. Um similarly you have like the iron horseshoes being placed above doorways, not just for good luck, but also to keep things away. So yeah, iron is definitely one. Similarly the lock on the door as well, you see that a lot in in Welsh folktales where if the fairies are kind of pursuing and attacking somebody, running after them and chasing them, all they have to do is run into the house, close the door, and bolt the iron bolt across, and the fairies can't cross that doorway then. So yeah, iron is definitely one that we see a lot.

Speaker 3: When you were working on your Welsh fairy book, did you seek out experiences with fairies? Did you go to places that could have been a fairy Did you seek out experiences, I guess is my question, in kind of quote-unquote researching the book? And if so, what were the experiences?

Speaker 2: Oh yeah. So um to kind of go onto that question, one thing that I want to address is like this idea because it's something that gets pushed around, especially on TikTok and such lately, is this idea that fairies uh are something that we need to kind of stay away from, that they need to be left alone to their own devices. We want nothing to do with them. They're scary, they're, you know, all of this. And I have to kind of address that and say that when it comes to the historical context of magic within a specifically Welsh context, that's not the case. You know, we don't see this whole idea that fairies are almost these scary boogeymen that you have to keep away from all the time. Um what we see instead is this idea that And And a lot of people will come forward when I say this and say, well, if if we weren't wanting to stay away from them, why is there so many different things that you can do to keep them away, you know? And my answer to that is always, well, that was for the common people. That was for everyday people. The people who were making these charms and such and telling the people to do these things were magical practitioners. You know, the people weren't just getting this knowledge that iron is, you know, something that will keep them away or rowan will keep them away. They weren't getting these ideas from nowhere. They were getting them from people who were experienced magical practitioners.

Speaker 3: Having those experiences. Yeah.

Speaker 2: Exactly. And in a lot of these stories, when the fairies cause mischief and mayhem and harm to people's lives, the first person they will go to for help is the cunning woman, the witch, the magical practitioner. So I always turn around and I say, yes, it's true that mortals for the most part stayed away from fairies because they were scary, they were volatile, they could cause all sorts of chaos in your life. But it's a completely different story for those of us who dabbled into the magical aspects of life. People who practiced magic were said to have a very specific relationship with the fairies. They had to understand the way that the other world operated, the way that fairies operated. And we have within Welsh tradition a whole corpus of magical practice associated with connecting to and being in relationship with fairies. We even have grimoires from like through the centuries that um magical practitioners kept with spells and recipes and ingredients and methods of reaching out to and connecting with fairies. So for me personally, not just for the research of this book, but the fae folk, the have always been an inherent aspect of my magical practice. They've always been there at the very forefront of it all. And it's very hard not to be that way when you are a Welsh practitioner because even our gods are usually very much of that same realm. They're of the same idea and concept of the other world as the fae folk are. So if you are somebody who's terrified of fairies and you you're that type of witch who sits at home watching TikToks and you'll say to someone, oh, I don't mess with the fae, they're too scary, but then you have an altar set up to the goddess That's a bit contradictory because is an otherworldly maiden. She is, by definition, a fairy. So you are working with a fairy in that instance. Um so is that strange bridge where a lot of our gods and goddesses are very much of the fairy realm. So they are by that definition fairies as well. So I already had kind of a corpus of practices that I carried out in order to connect with the fairies, with the with the with all of these different fairy entities that we have within our lore. But then in researching this book, I just found more and more and it's great like how much I came across that is just woven into our culture. So little things like, you know, certain locations that are deeply associated with them. Um I'm lucky to have very good friends who took me to a great many of these locations so that I could experience them for myself. We went to which is a lake associated with the Lady of the Lake, a fairy who came and married a mortal man and such. We went to various sacred wells that are associated with fairies and hilltops and all sorts of things. We also crafted. So I found in an old grimoire um I found this kind of method of associating yourself with fairies, which involves crafting certain wands out of hazelwood and such. So we crafted wands out of hazel. I've got a staff of hazel that I use in my practice and such. And so these little things we started exploring, not just me, but me and my cupboard and my friends and such, we all went out and kind of did a few of these things together. And yeah, I suppose my practice now is very much linked with that idea of Annwn, the other world, but also fairies in general. So yeah, definitely.

Speaker 3: Sadly, we can't all get out to Wales and to all these beautiful places that are full of magic, but there's a lot of magic in the natural world in any place. Just like you said earlier, things are alive. The fae and the magic and the energy is all around anywhere that you are. So do you have any tips for someone who wants to maybe connect with the fae in their home or in their yard or in their local park? If they want to connect with that type of energy or bring that into them, do you have any tips for them on how to connect to that?

Speaker 2: My main tip always is to get to know your square mile. So get to know that area that you live in itself. Um I know it's probably preachy of me to say so, but this is one of the reasons that I wrote my first book. Like my first book Welsh Witchcraft was written in part out of frustration because I knew so many witches in Wales who were deeply deeply attached to the idea of connecting with gods and spirits from like places thousands hundreds of miles away. And I used to always get frustrated and go what about the spirits here? What about the ones on your doorstep? Are you connecting with them? And a lot of the time they would turn around and they would say well, I don't know enough about them. You know, there aren't as many books on Welsh deities and spirits as there are on say uh you know Greek or Egyptian or Roman or anything like that. So it was just easier for them to connect to those gods and goddesses and spirits and such. So I always turn around and say the first thing is look to your square mile, which I know and understand, acknowledge and appreciate that for somebody who lives say in the United States or in Australia or Canada or anything like that, it can be a little daunting to approach because for a lot of people, especially people who have skin the same complexion as mine, you know, you're living on stolen land essentially and it's good to acknowledge that and appreciate it. Um and also kind of reach out to the custodians of that land, to the people who lived on that land before your ancestors got there. And ask if possible, if it's possible to do so, what are some methods of connecting to the local spirits in a respectable way, you know? And I know it can be difficult especially in that situation. But beyond that as well, I'm always struck by how much was actually taken over the sea as well because when I talk about Welsh fairies, I'll often get little messages where people will say oh we have those all the way here in the Appalachian Mountains. We have those all the way here in the back places of Australia and such. So

Speaker 3: I I wouldn't be surprised. The Appalachian Mountains range is pretty weird. I would not be surprised at all if there's a connection there.

Speaker 2: Absolutely. And it it's very deeply connected because you know, we have not only similar entities by name, but also similar entities in essence as well. So we have in Wales these uh creatures called and the uh are these mining entities that live beneath the earth and they knock away at the rocks and they are sometimes a little malevolent, but for the most part quite benevolent. Um and then when I talk about this, so many people are like we have those in the Appalachian Mountains.

Speaker 3: I live in Pennsylvania. We have the knockers in the mine. Yeah.

Speaker 2: Oh my gosh. Yeah, exactly. So when it comes to connecting with things like fairies or spirits of place, there's already this corpus of belief that's built up in your area probably. So like that, like the knockers in the mines and such, what have you done to connect to those you know is what I will always say to people.

Speaker 3: Don't tap into that.

Speaker 2: Exactly. And you know, can you find out more about the folklore of those beings and how people used to interact with them if they interacted with them at all in the past? So for me, it's always uh a huge task of getting to know your square mile. What is around you? Look towards your square mile and get to know not just the landscape, but also the stories of that landscape and what's woven into that that place because that will always open so many doors. You know, talk to the older people who have been around for a long time. Talk to the trees for God's sake. You know, we do that as pagans. So go off and find out what magic lives in your square mile. And that one little piece of advice will usually open so many doors that things will become much clearer then.

Speaker 3: That's phenomenal. I absolutely love that. We are big proponents of find the spirits in your place. Find the energy where you're at. Worship the seasons where you're from, not from halfway around the world, but but look to your I love that your square mile, your your range. That's that's a beautiful way to look at it mine.

Speaker 4: Yeah, that's going to stick with me. Know your square mile.

Speaker 3: Yeah. Mara, thank you so much for joining us on Back on the Broomstick. It has been an absolute joy having you here and talking to you about Wales, about fairy magic, about your books. We really appreciate it. Please let people know where they can find you. I know next year you will be at Sacred Space 2025 as one of the headliners and hopefully we will be there presenting with you and we'll see you there. But where can people find you and and tell us a little bit more about your upcoming book and and

Speaker 2: Well, I can basically be found pretty much everywhere these days. Like I said at I'm like a rash. Once you've rubbed up against me, it's very hard to get rid of me. Um so you can find me pretty much everywhere under the name Mara Starling, the way that it's written in this episode title and such um across like Facebook, Instagram, uh threads. I don't even know what else I'm on. Just go and find me on TikTok. Yes, YouTube. I always forget to promote my YouTube even though it's one of the places that I actually quite enjoy being. Um so yes, I do create a lot of free content online across my socials. And you know, it depends on what kind of things you're into. If you're into flamboyant chaos, then my TikTok is the place to go. If you're interested in having a bit more of a you know serious chat about these things, then my YouTube is probably the best place to go. Um similarly, I have you know an Instagram and I share a lot of posts on there about the local area. So if you want to see pretty pictures of Wales, that's the place to come find me as well. Um I do have a Patreon. My Patreon is uh a paid membership platform. It's you know, you pay whatever you can per month and you can join different tiers. And over on Patreon, I share a bunch of information about Welsh magic and law via various different methods. So I have like video presentations and classes and courses. I also have essays and worksheets and all sorts of things on there that people can look into. You can even watch full length documentaries on there and such. So if you do want to come and join us, you also get access to a community of people, a Discord server and a Facebook group and all sorts of things like that. you get to talk to not just me, but a whole community of people who have an interest in these kinds of things, then do come find me on Patreon. And then my books can be purchased pretty much wherever books are sold. Welsh Witchcraft is already out now everywhere. You can buy it on the usual like you know online places like Amazon and such, but I would say support your local book sellers and go and ask them to order it in if possible. If they don't have it already, they probably will be able to order it in for you. And then my new book Welsh Fairies releases uh later this year. So by the autumn it should be out everywhere and I I can't wait. I hope people enjoy it because it's it was a huge labor of love.

Speaker 3: I'm pretty sure the book comes out October 8th. So don't hold me to that, but right around there you'll be able to get the new book Welsh Fairies by Mara Starling.

Speaker 4: And we are super excited that in March 2025 you are coming to America. And we're even more excited that we're going to be able to meet you in person. Um so are there any other places in person over in Wales where people who are in that area can catch you in person coming up?

Speaker 2: Oh well, I'm always at in person events. I love to travel around the country. So I'm not only in Wales, but also I go into England and I go into Scotland. I'll be talking at the Scottish Pagan Federation Conference later this year. So if anybody's in Scotland and wants to learn a bit more about Annwn and kind of Brythonic Celtic traditions and such, then do come find me there. I'm usually at things like Witchfest and the Festival of Pagans and Witches. But yes, I can't wait. I 'm going global next year and I'm like you know I'm basically being a venereal disease and spreading across the water. So people have to deal with me there there as well. So yeah, I'm very excited to be coming over to the United States and terrified like I said earlier, very terrified as well, but mostly excited.

Speaker 4: But I do have one last question, very important. How do you do all that? You are very busy lady. That's a lot of stuff going on, my good gracious. Can you give me a little of that energy?

Speaker 2: God's, I don't even know at this point. I barely sleep. I just like to do things. I just love being around other witches and pagans. It's fun. It's a lot of fun.

Speaker 4: I agree.

Speaker 3: The reason you can't understand it is because that's the Gemini life, Laylla. And if you're not a Gemini, you can't keep up.

Speaker 4: Okay. That makes complete I get it now. Well, thank you for sharing some of your precious time with us, Mara. We really appreciate it. You have been absolutely lovely.

Speaker 2: Thank you so much for having me.

Speaker 4: And again, Chelle and I would like to extend a huge thank you to Mara Starling for taking the time to sit down and have a conversation with us. And also thank you so much to our listeners for being amazing. If you'd like to reach out to us, send an email at backonthebroomstick@gmail.com. Check out our website, Facebook, Instagram, back on the Broomstick. And as always, please tell your friends, like, subscribe, give us a review, throw us some stars. We really appreciate it and it helps the show out. Be wise, be wicked.

Speaker 3: Keep it witchy.
