Laylla: Welcome to Back on the Broomstick, a modern witches' spoken word grimoire, where two witchy friends from way back are reconnecting to their pagan roots after a long period of mundanity.

Chelle: We're rewalking the path of the wise and trying out all the latest spells, rituals, and magical theory in today's witchcraft and pagan practices.

Laylla: So grab your wand and your incense, your cauldron and your crystals, and join us as we get back on the broomstick.

Laylla: Welcome to Back on the Broomstick. I'm Laylla, and today we're recording another Witches Answer episode, where we answer your fan mail, your email, your DMs, and help you out with your burning witchy questions. And in case you haven't noticed, I sound a little bit weird. I'm recovering from COVID, unfortunately.

Chelle: She got the Rona.

Laylla: I did, and I got it pretty badly, too. And I guess it's because I was bragging that I had never gotten it before, so it had to show me who was boss.

Chelle: You know what I think it was? I think we've like partied like rock stars all summer long. This was like karma saying, "Okay, bitches, it is time to get back on the saddle." But we did good. We caught up. We we we stayed caught up with everything except for communication.

Laylla: Pretty much. Pretty much.

Chelle: Happens.

Laylla: Yeah, it happens. That's where this episode kind of came out about today. So, tonight we wanted to answer some of your burning questions.

Chelle: Woohoo!

Laylla: So, before we get started doing that, Chelle and I wanted to touch on a maybe burning PSA, public service announcement, I guess.

Chelle: We'll call it that. We'll call it that.

Laylla: We've talked about counterfeit tarot decks before.

Chelle: Oh my god, you're going to get me started, aren't you?

Laylla: I am. I am. You're exactly why I wanted to bring this up.

Chelle: Now, I do have a happy ending to my story, which I will get to, because even you don't realize this, but I did have a kind of, in my mind, happy ending.

Laylla: Oh, good. Well, over the summer, Chelle and I went to quite a few different festivals, workshops, camping,

Chelle: Events.

Laylla: Things.

Chelle: Regular pagan shops.

Laylla: Places.

Chelle: And saw all sorts of amazing creations,

Laylla: People's books, people's besoms, capes, cloaks.

Chelle: But we also saw scams.

Laylla: There were counterfeit decks galore. It almost seems like it is worse now than even like a year ago when we first started talking about counterfeit tarot decks.

Chelle: Motherfucker, I got scammed. I got scammed. Me, the tarot queen. I'm I'm pushing 200 decks. Who gets scammed? Me. I was so, and, and, it wasn't even like at a festival. It was like at a store. That made the burn hurt more.

Laylla: Yeah.

Chelle: I was going to say, it made the burn hurt more.

Laylla: Yeah, absolutely. And if even someone like Chelle can get scammed by these counterfeit decks, it's going to be hard for anyone to tell, especially with the proliferation of second-hand decks that you'll see like on Facebook Marketplace or some place like that. So, what can we do, Chelle? How did you know that you got a counterfeit deck?

Chelle: And that's the kicker. I didn't know at first. You know, I had sent you a text message one day. I do this to you often. "Hey, look what I bought at lunch at work." That's a text message you're used to. And I had gotten these three decks, and I was like, "Oh, I love these." And I started using one of them a lot for a few weeks, because I really liked it. That ended up being the real deck. So, because I liked that one a lot, I kind of put the other two aside temporarily, so I think that's why I didn't notice right away. So, I open this deck. Beautiful deck. I'm showing you right now. It's called the Black Cats Tarot. It's about kitty cats. I love kitty cats.

Laylla: Yeah.

Chelle: It looked normal, and in retrospect, I think it was my addiction overcoming me, because I'm going to jump to the happy ending really quick. As you know, I went and I I got out of storage my hundreds of tarot decks and I've brought them back to my domicile, and I've been going through them. So, on my Google spreadsheet, because everybody needs a Google spreadsheet of how many tarot decks they have, I realized I have the Black Cats Tarot already. Thank you, Jesus. So, I put it down and I set this one that I just recently obtained over the summer next to it, and I was like, sure as shit, they are not the same size. And the other thing was, you know those scan codes, the scan codes,

Laylla: QR codes.

Chelle: The QR code. It had a QR code at the bottom. But here's where they tripped me up, because this is where I usually, and, I'm changing my ways, I promise. Normally, I open up a deck and I look to see if there's a book in it. This one didn't have a book, and that should have been the first sign to me. But it had a card that was almost like it explained the four suits on the card.

Laylla: Mhm.

Chelle: You know what I'm saying? Like it wasn't like, you know, the Ace of Cups should mean something along these lines. No, it was more like the suit of cups generally means this, the suit of wands generally, so I kind of was just like, "Oh yeah, that's cool, you know, things are new, maybe this is what they're doing now." Yeah, no. Stupid, stupid, stupid, stupid me. But, like I said, luckily, the happy ending was is that I accidentally bought a, bought this when I already had it and didn't realize it, so I actually do have a legitimate, awesome, perfect copy of the Black Cats Tarot, but I also have a freaking fake. Now, let's just say,

Laylla: Did you notice that it was a fake before you put it down next to the real one or, or after?

Chelle: Well, I'm going to say before, only because I had noticed the book issue and the QR code before I put it down next to the other deck.

Laylla: And those are really going to be your biggest clues that that's going to be counterfeit, is the size difference. They're almost always like a, just slightly larger than standard playing cards in size.

Chelle: Well, see, they're toying with the sizes now, and you can get different, all different sizes that are legitimate, and that's the problem.

Laylla: Right. Legitimate decks tend to come in many different sizes. Fake decks tend to be all the kind that will fit into those very simple flat pack boxes. You know what I'm talking about?

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: They're, they're very simple flat pack boxes, and they tend to all be somewhat uniform in size. The other thing is they'll have a QR code on it.

Chelle: At the bottom.

Laylla: At the bottom, usually. And here's what I've been finding is my most reliable way to tell if it's a fake or not. Look at the back of the box. They almost always make the front of the box look very similar to the commercial deck, but the back of the box will be very, very simple, may have the QR code on it, but it will not have the ISBN, which is the, the number and barcode that you'll see on most books and tarot decks. If it does not have that ISBN bar and it has a QR code, you are almost 100% guaranteed looking at a counterfeit deck. If someone's trying to sell you a second-hand deck, maybe on Facebook or through some other online marketplace, ask to see the back of the deck.

Chelle: Or the bottom.

Laylla: Or the bottom, and ask if it has a QR code on it. Unfortunately, I think even retailers are getting scammed, because I have commented on one vendor at a festival and one vendor online, and they had bought it from their regular supplier and had thought that they were legitimate tarot decks. So, even as a vendor, you need to be cautious.

Chelle: Well, and that's exactly what happened to me. I bought this from a local shop in Salem. Like, I wasn't just buying it from a street person.

Laylla: And the reason you don't want to buy counterfeit tarot decks is, one, they tend to be very, very low quality. The card stock, the colors, the ink, the artwork is all going to be extremely low quality. And the biggest reason is it's a rip-off for the artist and the author of these decks. They make very little money to begin with, and then if you have these counterfeit decks out there, that's going to eat into their profits. People are going to stop making these decks, and we can't have that. We need these creative people to continue making wonderful, amazing tarot and oracle decks.

Chelle: Well, and, you know, I can, I guess I can kind of see the draw if you're looking at it from a certain way. You know, we're all poor folk. We're not all independently wealthy, you know, and, and you see these decks, and I'm not going to mention the website that begins with a T, but you see these websites that like, "Oh, get a tarot deck for $7.99 or $6.99." And, you know, times are tough, and we're all poor mofos, and you're like, "You know, $7.99, that's a lot better than $25.99, and I can afford that." And then you buy it and you're like, "Shit." So, you know, kind of like what my father always used to say, "You get what you pay for." If you are not paying, I'm just going to throw a number out there, $17.99 or more, you're going to want to question the validity of that deck.

Laylla: Yeah, and a lot of times they'll come across and they say, "Oh, it's a 50% off sale, 75% off sale." It's a scam.

Chelle: Trust me, if there was a 75% off sale on tarot, my ass would be on that shit in a hot minute, a hot minute.

Laylla: Now, I also have a, this also happens to be a cat deck, that is a fake deck.

Chelle: Really? We both got cat fakes?

Laylla: We both got cat fakes. But, so what do you do? If you happen to have, I have a fake, you have a fake,

Chelle: That freaking cat deck I gave you, was that fake?

Laylla: It is.

Chelle: Was it really? Because I bought it at the same store at the same time that I got this deck fake. So, basically, that day I bought two fake decks from a local retailer.

Laylla: Yes.

Chelle: Itchy asshole spells all around. Like I said, what makes, what makes the burn more is that it's a store. It's not like we bought it from like a tent sale at a festival, you know what I mean?

Laylla: Exactly. Exactly. And even if you did, the tent sale at the festival, the vendor that I spoke to, she had had no idea that she was purchasing fakes. This is a vendor that she would buy other types of statues and, and jewelry from, and did not think, you know, she didn't buy it from the website that begins with a T. She bought it from her regular vendor. So, it can be very difficult for people. You have to do your due diligence. And now say, against, you know, against your better judgment or, you know, it's a fluke or it was a gift or however you got it, in your hands is a fake tarot deck. What do you do?

Chelle: Okay, I have some mixed emotions here. I say just use it and keep it, unless you're like dying morally on the inside, okay? The artist got screwed. We've, we've established that. What was done was wrong on a lot of different levels, probably borderline illegal, actually, as well. We've, we've established that. But the images are the same. We all garner some sort of truth from these images, and even legitimate tarot decks that you buy are mass-produced in some warehouse in who knows where. So, it's not like the quote-unquote magic isn't there, because you bring the magic to the cards. The cards are just really a conduit.

Laylla: Yeah, it's not a fake tarot deck in the sense that it won't work. It will obviously work.

Chelle: It's a fake tarot deck in the sense that somebody got screwed out of their due profit.

Laylla: Yes.

Chelle: I would still use it, actually. And I actually thought about this, and I was going to bring it up. I'm going to actually offer this deck to any listener who wants it. Black Cats Tarot, I'll post a picture if you like. It is a fake deck, but if you are interested, I'll ship it to you.

Laylla: There you go. So, some of the things that you can do with the tarot decks that you get, if they are fake and you don't necessarily want to use it, first off, don't beat yourself up about it. Do try to educate the seller and let them know.

Chelle: I was pissed. I was pissed at myself more than anything.

Laylla: And one of the best things that I've seen to use these fake decks for is for learning. Now you have a travel deck that you don't have to worry about getting dirty or getting ripped or being used by other people. You have a deck that you can write on. Yes, I'm going to tell you now to write on your tarot decks, like the

Chelle: You write on everything, don't you? Books, tarot decks.

Laylla: Pretty much. So, write on this one. Put your keywords on it. Put the things that you want to remember on it. Use it as a learning tool.

Chelle: Oh my god, you could put like planetary correspondences on it or herbal, that's a brilliant idea.

Laylla: You could, you could use it for your scrapbook grimoire. You could use it to put in your journal pages instead of stickers.

Chelle: You could take a card or two out if you are trying to assemble a magpie deck.

Laylla: Correct. They'll still work. Any cards will work. You could print cards out on your computer that will work as a tarot deck. The ethical concern is

Chelle: There's some morally shitty implications, that's all.

Laylla: Right, exactly. So, you want to take care of that first. Educate the person that you purchased it from, see if they'll take it back as a return and maybe get their money back as well.

Chelle: Smack yourself in the head.

Laylla: Smack yourself in the head a few times. No, don't do that. Maybe try to buy the real deck if you can, if you want to support that artist.

Chelle: And see, that's what, that's what my original plan was. I was going to replace it with the real deck until I realized I already had the real deck, and then all's well that ends well.

Laylla: There you go. So, that's our PSA for the beginning of our Witches Answer episode, is what to do if you get scammed like, unfortunately, Chelle and I did. I also want to mention that our hosting service, Buzzsprout, has also started something called Fan Mail. If you check out the description of the episodes, you'll see that there's a link right there to send us something called Fan Mail. We can't respond to you, we can still get questions from there, and someone from our pagan community back in the day, Chelle, contacted us through that and said that they listen to the podcast and

Chelle: Really?

Laylla: I love it. Yeah.

Chelle: Really?

Laylla: So, I want to say hi to our old community members that are listening, and we love you guys and miss you. Maybe we'll see you on Samhain.

Chelle: Shout out to the BPC. Woohoo!

Laylla: So, we got an email from a listener named Kalina, and she's a new witch from the UK, and she's also solitary and self-taught, and she says she has a question about ancestral work, because she'd very much like to connect to loved ones who've passed, but she's worried that it's risky. She's kind of scared because she's anxious that she'll call something harmful or mean through, and her husband doesn't really help her much because he also says that she should be very, very careful that she doesn't get everyone into trouble by mistake.

Chelle: I see where she's coming from, right? Continue on before we address this.

Laylla: Her other questions are, how do you dismiss or send away the spirit? How do you finish the workings to make sure no one stays or follows you? And she also had a question for me, because when we talked about ancestor work, I mentioned that I reached way back to a potential ancestress who was not too pleased with me, and she wanted to know how I knew that and how I handled it.

Chelle: Now, I do want to address one portion of that first and foremost with, when I'm thinking about ancestral work, you know, granted you are far removed from these people, but in my twisted little mind, this is my fam here, and I know the crazy that I am, and I know the crazy that my family is, so I just kind of look at it as, I might be calling in crazy, but at least it's a familiar crazy. It's a crazy I can deal with because it's familiar. That's really kind of my approach to, should I, should I, you know, it's kind of like Ouija board work. Be cautious, but move forward. Proceed with caution. Proceed with caution.

Laylla: I agree. Ancestor work is not inherently dangerous. It's actually, like Chelle said, this is your fam. This is your family. These are

Chelle: It's more dangerous to get out a Ouija board, if that's what you're asking.

Laylla: There you go. If your intention is ancestor work, I do recommend that you set up a space. You don't necessarily have to cast a circle if you don't want to, but I like to have a space that's sacred to ancestors and to that particular type of work.

Chelle: As best I can, I like to have something, a picture, a trinket, like when I'm doing it with more recent ancestors, say my grandparents or my great-grandparents, I like to have a trinket there. A little further back, I like to try to dig up a picture. Ancestry.com is great for trying to find old pictures of relatives that you may never have met and are hundreds of years old. But if you can come up with some sort of something to tie you to that, to that person or, yeah.

Laylla: Even a name.

Chelle: Even a name.

Laylla: Even if you just have a name or a region and you're just calling, some people don't know who their ancestors are, so you, you might just be calling to your ancestors generically and seeing how they come through. In those cases, it's definitely a good idea to have a space that you use, maybe a circle. You can use protective crystals or have something grounding to you and to your home.

Chelle: Or if you have an amulet or sigils, maybe have those placed, yeah.

Laylla: Clear quartz for protection, maybe obsidian or black tourmaline for protection or grounding. But it's not going to hurt you to call out to your ancestors. The odds of you bringing something bad back with you are

Chelle: Slim to, slim to very

Laylla: Bad movie.

Chelle: Slim to, slim to bad Hollywood movie.

Laylla: Yeah. That's not usually going to happen. Almost every single time, you're just going to connect with ancestors who want to talk to you, have a message, or maybe just a good feeling. It's normal to question your abilities, especially as a solitary practitioner who's new. As Chelle and I always say, your intention is very powerful. If you sit down with the intention of calling to ancestors, that's what you're going to get, even if you're worried.

Chelle: And we all, we all have a different, different version of what an angry spirit is or what a, what a, what a grumpy, you know, pissed off spirit is, you know. Was my grandfather super pleased with some stuff I did and did he come and tell me that? Not so much. Would I have said he was angry? Yes, because in real life, you know, in, when he was still a part of this physical world, that was how he was when he was angry. But if we're talking like, my house is shaking, exorcist, my head's spinning type of stuff, yeah, no, that, no, no.

Laylla: No, that's not going to happen. And when you're done with your working, when you've done your meditation, you'll know that you're done, and then maybe you'll have a phrase to say goodbye, like Chelle's Ouija board analogy. You always make sure you say goodbye at the end. You can say goodbye in many different ways. You could clap your hands, you could ring a bell, you could get up and get something to eat, make yourself a cup of tea.

Chelle: Treat it like you have visitors in your home in the physical place. It is time for you to go. Bye-bye.

Laylla: That's right. I fucking love that.

Chelle: If you have to get, resort to, "Get out now," you know, you, you draw that line in the sand. This is my space and you need to go. Your time is up. Goodbye.

Laylla: My grandmother has way too much advice for me most of the time. I usually have to do that when she comes into a work.

Chelle: Right? Right? Because she won't stop talking.

Laylla: You have to set that boundary with the spirit world just as you would set that boundary in the physical world. You know, when your Aunt Suzy Q comes over and you have had it and you're ready to show her the door, you're going to do the same thing when she hits the afterlife and comes back to you and does the same shit. You just got to set that boundary. It is time for you to go. Goodbye.

Laylla: Yeah, and I like to have the same goodbye ritual every time. It's good for me, it's good for them.

Chelle: Consistency. Consistency is definitely a thing.

Laylla: Yeah, so if you ring a bell, if you turn your besom upside down, if whatever you do, consistently do that to say goodbye, that's going to signal to your subconscious as well as to the spirit world that you're done.

Chelle: And see, that's why I like to cast a circle when I do that type of thing because that's where you get into that habitual flow. You know what I mean? When you cast a circle, you know that there's a certain order to things. And so, if you do it in that type of format, you you kind of automatically incorporate your goodbye.

Laylla: I love that. Yes, exactly. And also, say you do feel that you have some negative energy, maybe a negative spirit, or maybe your Aunt Suzy Q was a little bit bitchy today and you just want to cleanse that energy out, do your regular cleansing. You could use a a salt bath, you could use a smoke cleanse, you could do a music cleanse, you could get up and dance, you could drink a tea, or do an herbal smoke with cannabis and herbs to cleanse yourself. Again, same thing as with ending the ritual, I recommend using the same type of cleansing thing every time. Maybe you say goodbye and then you turn up your favorite song every single time, and that helps to cleanse those energies. But if you if you're worried about it, just perform an extra cleansing and you're good.

Chelle: I'll be honest with you, one time my grandpa came and had a grumpy message. It kind of freaked me out, so to combat it, I then invoked my grandma to handle him.

Laylla: I love that.

Chelle: I panicked. I didn't know what to do, so I was like, "Uh, Grandma!"

Laylla: And that's what your ancestors are there for. They're there to help you. Even if it's your ancestors you need help from.

Chelle: But, you know, when you know, I I kind of joke and it being my grandparents, but, you know, most people are thinking ancestral work, you know, talking four, five, 10, 15 generations back. And, you know, we don't have that same physical relationship with those people when they were in the physical world. But I, in my opinion, same rules apply because I look at it as they might be, you know, ancestors 10 generations back, but where do you think I got my crazy from?

Laylla: Right. Yeah, you know them, they know you. And okay, the last part of the question is my ancestress that was not too thrilled with me, we are working through that and we have a good relationship with her now. I like to think so, anyways. But the way I first felt that was I I reached out to her, I don't know her name, and I I guess I was a little rude reaching out to her. It more manifested as just kind of heaviness. It felt prickly. The energy felt off. You know, I'm in a nice meditative state, I'm in my nice meditative ancestral area, and, you know, I felt uneasy. I felt nervous. I I started to embody some of the feelings of anger and upsetness. I could feel the anger kind of like I was getting angry, like I was getting upset. And so it was more just kind of feeling those emotions. You know, similar to when you connect with any ancestor, you can kind of sometimes feel a wave of love or you'll feel a wave of comfort. In this particular case, I felt a wave of anger, and and it just felt more prickly and uncomfortable. So we we kind of ended that session, and then I approached a little more cautiously, a little more respectfully each time, and and it's gotten better. You know, it's all going to depend on how you approach them and how you handle that afterwards. But it it usually comes through for me as just waves of emotion and feeling.

Chelle: I don't know, it's kind of more just like you and kind of like you and I having a conversation. It's just kind of a conversation. And maybe it's because people kind of send certain know or absorb things differently, and maybe I'm just very audio, but it's it's very much more just a conversation.

Laylla: Yeah, with this particular ancestress, it was more emotion rather than words.

Chelle: I got you. I got you.

Laylla: But that's a good point.

Chelle: That could be interesting, and I haven't experienced that before, and it would maybe be nifty to, but with me, it's really it's very conversation-based.

Laylla: I'm really glad you brought that up, and I'm just going to really quick tangent on that because how you experience this in your magical or meditative space is going to be different person to person. It might just be emotions, maybe it's going to be pictures, maybe it's going to be words, maybe it's going to feel like a dream. Uh, it's going to be very different depending on who you are, you know, and how your ancestors choose to talk to you.

Chelle: Just how things come to you, yeah.

Laylla: Exactly. So that's going to vary widely between witches and and practitioners as you contact your ancestors. So you're going to need to be open to how that works for you. All right, so what's our next question?

Chelle: Now, I want to bounce around here a little bit, and we're going to take a little good with the bad. So, you know, not everybody loves Laylla and Chelle's show. What? Newsflash, you heard me. So, I'm going to read this, and I'm going to I'm I'm going to read this, and then I want to know your opinion because we're going to talk about this like reasonable adults here.

Laylla: All right, let's go for it.

Chelle: So, we had a listener write in, "The first episode I'm listening to, and not even halfway through, there's shameless cultural appropriation, and it's clear the hosts don't actually know what they're doing. What knowledgeable herbalist or green witch creates an herb bundle with dried herbs? And also, can non-native folks please stop using the term smudging? It's 2024, and there are tons of available resources about smoke cleansing that don't appropriate indigenous practices." Talk to me.

Laylla: Okay. So, this was a review that we got, and part of it is absolutely 100% correct. We have used the term smudging, and we should not. Smudging is a Native American practice. It is something that is taught. There is more to it than just smoke cleansing. This is a word in Chelle's and my vocabulary for a very long time. A lot of witches, particularly in the '80s and '90s, uh, we learned about smudging from a community member who happens to be native. I don't know if that's a point that we need to make or not, but now that we-

Chelle: So, let's make that point.

Laylla: We were taught smudging and taught the word by a native community member. That doesn't mean we get to use it. And so just because we were originally taught, quote unquote, that word, that that was the proper one to use for smoke cleansing, because we were not initiated or trained in these practices, we do not have the right to use that word. It's better to keep these practices pure. We can appreciate as much as we want, but some things require training, they require initiation, they require being part of that culture, and you cannot separate those things just because you happen to know the word and what the word means. It's it's very much deeper than that. I'm not trying to make excuses by saying that's how we learned it. I'm just explaining that that's where it came from, and we are working on eliminating that from our vocabulary to be more respectful to the culture where that came from. So, we're going to do better about using the term smoke cleansing because that is exactly what we're doing when we're talking about that. So, on that point, they were correct. We shouldn't use the term smudging. Uh, we do try not to, but obviously we have in the past a little bit. So, we know better, we're trying to do better. Now, the other one, I take complete exception to. The herb bundles.

Chelle: When in holy Hecate did we ever say that?

Laylla: I'm not really sure. I know we talked-

Chelle: I'll have to go back I I'll have to go back and listen because I've talked about having herbs dried while they're bundled, but I what my question is, how do you make an herb bundle with dried herbs because it would all crumble?

Laylla: Right, right, which, you know, I'm not sure if we implied that we did that. So, we're going to give you a quick how-to on how to make a smoke bundle if you would like to dry your herbs and use them for smoke cleansing or any other types of incense. Basically, you take not fresh herbs. You do want them somewhat dry. If you take-

Chelle: Like like wilted, like maybe a tad more than wilted.

Laylla: Exactly. I like them a little bit more on the dry side. You obviously don't want them to be crispy or, like Chelle said, they will break apart. But you want them to be a little bit more than wilted. You take your mugwort, your your sage, your lavender, your rosemary, whatever herbs you're making a bundle, put them together, tie them with string, hang them up to finish drying, and that's how it's done.

Chelle: What you sometimes have to do is like after they've dried for a few days, sometimes you got to like pull that string a little tighter because as the moisture comes out of it more, the string gets loose.

Laylla: Yeah. And so, I'm not really sure where that part came from, but, you know, hey, we don't mind being called out when we make mistakes.

Chelle: I do have a I do have a a quick ask here.

Laylla: Sure, what's that?

Chelle: If people want to call us out, if people don't agree with us, first of all, we're not all here to agree. Second of all, we could do it in a little less snarky manner, just saying. There, I'm I'm going to move on. Next question, Laylla.

Laylla: Yes.

Chelle: So, here's a negative thing. I'm going to have you read it, but I'm not sure what they're getting at.

Laylla: One of the other comments, negative comments that we had recently was, "Why would you celebrate something evil?" Are we celebrating something evil? Did I miss something? Not at all. I was thinking, did I forget something? I'm pretty sure I've been here for every single episode, and there has been nothing evil on any of them. So, I'm not-

Chelle: Oh my god, I know what it is.

Laylla: What is it?

Chelle: We're witches and we're evil.

Laylla: Oh, what? No. In this big year 2024, people still think witches are evil? Well, Chelle's tarot addiction's kind of evil.

Chelle: Well, there's that.

Laylla: All right, moving on.

Chelle: This I think is a legitimate question. I don't think this is this is not a slap on us. Someone asked the question, "Why would you tell someone to use a poppet on someone else?"

Laylla: Because they asked you to.

Chelle: Yeah, pretty much.

Laylla: Pretty much that's why. If someone says, "Hey, I'm trying to get-"

Chelle: That's the short answer.

Laylla: That's the short answer. "I'm trying to get pregnant, and I want some help. Will you make me a poppet?" Yes, yes, I will happily help you with a fertility poppet. Um, you want a new job and you need some confidence and you want me to make you a poppet? Yes, I will make you a poppet. There are a million and one reasons why you would make a poppet for someone that are not negative.

Chelle: I am pretty sure though I asked you one time to make a poppet against one of my ex-boyfriends and you willingly did, but I asked.

Laylla: That was my next point. I'm also not going to knock someone who's making a poppet against their ex to get them the hell out of their life. Eh, I am not judging you for that.

Chelle: I mean, honestly, we never portrayed ourselves as all angels and sunshine.

Laylla: No. And like Chelle said, I have made poppets against other people in the past, will probably do it again. Poppet is not my first choice. It's not my it's not where my talents naturally lie.

Chelle: Same.

Laylla: But it is some- it is it is powerful magic. It is very, very powerful.

Chelle: It's a tool in the toolbox, but it's not necessarily my first go-to.

Laylla: There you go. And just like any tool, it can be used for good, it can be used for bad. It's really going to depend on how you as a practitioner use that magic.

Chelle: Do you know you can use a toilet plunger for good and for bad, too? I just want to point that out.

Laylla: I I don't want to go there. I don't want to even know. But yeah, tools, there you go. So, that's that's why.

Chelle: Okay, let's get to another question that is actually kind of relevant to to magic and in learning and understanding and hearing here. We heard from a nice man named Brian. Brian wears a hematite ring. You know, I used to wear a hematite pinky ring for a long time. So, Brian writes that he has a hematite ring, and although it has not broken, it has a crack that is all the way across and through it. Does this mean the ring has done all it can? Should I replace it, or can it still be cleansed and used? I have a couple thoughts on this. I think that maybe for Brian, the ring has run its course. But could he maybe, I don't want to say cleanse that hematite for other purposes, but kind of that's what I'm saying, like like if he wanted to use the fragments, let's say, you know, he had a little travel altar and you wanted to have some hematite chips on your travel altar, like that kind of thing. Do you get what I'm saying? Am I crazy?

Laylla: I hear what you're saying. No, I hear what you're saying. And yeah, when I responded to Brian's email, I did say that in my belief, a protection item like a hematite ring in particular, or say like a um, if you have a God's eye, if you have a, uh, the evil eye, once those break, that is typically thought to be a sign that it has protected you from a magical strike. It has protected you from something big and negative and and done all it can, so that you did not get hurt. So, it's done its work for you, in my opinion. Now, I personally would probably either retire that hematite ring or possibly, like Chelle said, uh, she said she might use it for chips.

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: I might retire it and honor its service at the same time. So, maybe I would put that in the bottom of a protection jar for my home, or maybe I would bury that under, uh, one of the cornerstones in my on my property, so it can continue to do kind of the same work that it, quote unquote, died doing, kind of continue that work. Because I think once something has taken a strike like that-

Chelle: It can't be your full armor anymore.

Laylla: It definitely can't be your full armor, and I think even if you repurpose that stone into something else, it can be very difficult to let go of that residual energy, in my opinion. Other people may be happy cleansing that and using those chips for some other some other working. But I would only use that in something similar, like I said, another protection spell or-

Chelle: But not as not as like a protection amulet anymore, like how he was wearing it as a ring.

Laylla: Right, and definitely not as the cornerstone of that protection, more as just something additional to kind of like retire it, uh, honor its service, and still have it continue to do something that it-

Chelle: A component. It's basically gone from the main show to a component of a recipe.

Laylla: Yeah. Yeah, once once it's cracked like that, it usually means that it has done its job. So, but I've had-

Chelle: But I've had I've had quartz crystals crack like that, too, and that's been kind of my thought, okay, your work here is done.

Laylla: Right, right. Now, I do have um, I have a a really beautiful green and purple fluorite, uh, cylinder that I got that cracked along a flaw in the stone. That was just an accident. That just happened. That wasn't anything mystic or magical.

Chelle: That was a weak spot in the stone, though. That was different.

Laylla: Right. So, that's different, and not everything is a sign. Not everything is something magical, is all I was trying to point out, is that one broke just because there was a flaw there. Your ring sounds like it broke in service of protecting you. So, it makes a difference.

Chelle: I love how you phrased that, "It died in service."

Laylla: Well, that's what, you know, when you charge these rings or these charms to take care of you, that's what they're doing. They're like little soldiers kind of guarding you and protecting you, in my mind. That's all.

Chelle: Okay, so I have another email, and this is from a person named Philip, and I loved this email. Thank you so much, Philip. You and your husband sound absolutely lovely.

Chelle: First of all, Philip thinks that I remind him of a crazy, fun-loving aunt who would totally lie to the siblings and take the underage niece and nephew to an R-rated movie or concert. First of all, Philip, you got me fucking tagged, spot on. And as long as you were over the age of 17, I might give you a joint, too.

Laylla: Yes. Now, Philip has been listening to our podcast and is discovering both Celtic and Norse paganism. Philip started out with the big blue book, Buckland's Big Blue Book.

Chelle: Didn't we all? I still have that book. Love it.

Laylla: I know. I love that book. However, Philip pointed out a huge flaw with Buckland is that it's very, very outdated.

Chelle: Very drab.

Laylla: It is. I love this book because it's very simple and straightforward and has every single little component you need to be a magical practitioner, to be a witch.

Chelle: First of all, Philip, I hear you because I feel like in 1993, it felt outdated. It basically the way you feel right now is how I felt about the same book in 1993. I hear you.

Laylla: It is outdated, and one of the things that it's outdated in is in its depiction of heterosexual everything.

Chelle: Well, yeah.

Laylla: Men are men and women are women, and so are the god and goddess.

Chelle: And the cows are the cows.

Laylla: That's right. And there is so much more nuance to the real world and to people and relationships. And, you know, as a gay man, Philip felt that this did not fit. So, and he's looking for some books that would help out. There are so many wonderful, amazing authors right now in the pagan world from the LGBTQ+ community, from different cultures, from everywhere. You can find pretty much anything you're looking for. So, that gives you the secondary problem of too much of a good thing sometimes. So, I'm going to give you a list of excellent books that either we have read or have been recommended to us. So, I have a huge list. I'm going to give you just a couple quick ones as well as some names, and I will put a very large list of these books in the show notes. So, Enfys Book is amazing author. Their book, "Queer Rites: A Magickal Grimoire to Honor Your Milestones with Pride" is fantastic. "Gay Witchcraft: Empowering the Tribe" by Christopher Penczak is also very good. "Queering Your Craft: Witchcraft from the Margins" by Cassandra Snow.

Chelle: Also, don't forget because, you know, I can't let this go by without throwing in a tarot deck. One tarot deck that I I received as a gift is the Pride Tarot. Beautiful deck. I recommend it for all tarot readers.

Laylla: Kristopher Hughes, Mhara Starling, Jack Chanek, Mat Auryn, Lee Harrington, Devin Hunter, Amber K, Thomas Ford, Storm Faerywolf. There are so many queer authors out there that have amazing, amazing books. Um, "The Path of the Green Man: Gay Men, Wicca and Living a Magical Life" by Michael Thomas Ford. I mean, there's books from decades ago and current books. It's just a rich, wonderful tapestry of magic. So, we will put all of these books, uh, in the show notes so that people can find them.

Chelle: Feel free to put that tarot deck in the show notes.

Laylla: I will also put the tarot deck in the show notes as well. So, yeah, I mean, we all know that there's a spectrum of male and female in deity, but sometimes that can be hard to find in our books. It's getting less hard to find with these amazing, amazing authors. So.

Chelle: So, we have a a another interesting question that I think is is kind of struck a chord with probably at least a good 99 9% of our listeners. We have a a message uh that we received from Julie Vive, and she writes, after she tells us that she loves us, which by the way, we love you, too. Um she writes that with all the chaos surrounding the 2024 election, ain't that the truth, um and fearful thoughts that is stirred among Americans, what practices, prayers, spells, or rituals would you suggest we would do separately and or as a collective to promote peace while protecting our energy and each other? Man, if that ain't the question of the month, Lord.

Laylla: Yeah, everything is crazy right now. There is a lot going on. There's a lot of emotions. People are very invested and worried about the upcoming election, and we get it.

Chelle: You know, unfortunately, I hate to say this, but we already have experience with this from roughly about 4 years ago because I think that there was that same turmoil and that same uncertainty and a lot of the same anger. This isn't new territory for us. And I think first and foremost, magic aside, spell work aside, put things into perspective, keep a level head, and if you expect kindness, then you damn well better be kind.

Laylla: Register to vote, volunteer for something local, keep it local is my way of staying sane. And I have also joined in a couple groups online, one group in particular, um we do weekly guided visualizations. And one of the big things that we're working with is the archetype of Columbia, the goddess of the United States. And if you don't know anything about her, I highly recommend you look into Columbia. But we're using this idea of a of a United States goddess, Columbia, the spirit of America, to help us visualize coming together, you know, people working together for justice, the truth, that these things will prevail.

Chelle: You know, that's so funny you say that because a group that I've been working with uh to the same end actually put in reverence the Statue of Liberty. So, we basically look as the Statue of Liberty as the goddess.

Laylla: Yes, you know, exactly. So, the Statue of Liberty is a wonderful egregore. We take these ideas, uh egregores are basically a a thought form, an idea that you put energy into and can create, can make that into something. And so, in this case, we are are working with a lot of uh visualization of the spirit of America trying to focus everyone's intentions, contribute positive energy to the nation because we we need that right now. I also love uh sigil work. You know that I do love to do sigils. Creating sigils towards the upcoming election can be a very powerful way to focus your intentions. Uh Laura Tempest Zakroff has some sigils uh you can find in her

Chelle: I was just thinking that, yep.

Laylla: Yep, she has created specific sigils for this moment in time in our nation in America right now. If you are in the US or even if you're outside of the US and and you want to contribute energy towards helping us come through this with liberty, justice, and happiness for all, then you can also focus on Laura Tempest Zakroff's sigils or the idea of Columbiana. But you can find a lot of these groups on Facebook or online. Maybe your local UU church or your local metaphysical shop might have groups that meet regularly. But getting involved at a local level, especially, you know, around getting out the vote or making sure that people know where their their polling stations are, any local things that you can do really can help, you know, make you feel more connected or make you feel like you're helping to make a difference. But magically, you know, the idea of the Statue of Liberty as goddess and Columbia as goddess can be wonderful thought forms to help you put energy towards that positivity.

Chelle: And if you don't have the time or the inclination to do something in your community, then I'll give you a really easy thing that you can do. In the words of Taylor Swift, whom I love, just go vote, man. There you go. I love that. Go vote. That's the best way, I think, to kind of promote that peace, protect our energy and each other is be heard. Exactly. Make your vote count. And to make your vote count, you got to vote. There's that.

Laylla: Yes. We might not always talk about it, but these are things that we are definitely working with, you know, behind the scenes.

Chelle: And you know what? Laylla's going to actually put a link in the show notes of where you can go register to vote if you are not currently registered.

Laylla: Absolutely. So, check out the the show notes if you are not registered to vote because it is important. It is a right of every American citizen, and you should most definitely exercise that right.

Chelle: Kind of like tattoos. Tattoos, voting, they go hand in hand. They're rights, fundamental freedoms here, people.

Laylla: I want another tattoo now. I don't I don't even know where to go with that. All right. Well, I think that's all the questions that we have time for now. If you would like to ask us a question, please DM, email, send us some fan mail, check out our Facebook discussion group, Back on the Broomstick Discussion Group.

Chelle: And once again, if we didn't get to your question today um and you emailed us or DM'd us over the summer, like we said in the beginning, we are plowing through those. Um it's going to take us a couple weeks to get through them all, so bear with us. But we've started. That's That's a plus. We will be getting back to you via email or DM shortly, and we do appreciate your correspondences and all the love and all the likes and all the stars and all the comments.

Laylla: We appreciate you guys very much. Thank you so much for listening to this episode of Back on the Broomstick. We will see you next week. In the meantime, stay wise, stay wicked.

Chelle: And damn it, keep it witchy.
