Laylla: Welcome to Back on the Broomstick, a modern witch's spoken word grimoire, where two witchy friends from way back are reconnecting to their pagan roots after a long period of mundanity.

Chelle: We're re-walking the path of the wise and trying out all the latest spells, rituals, and magical theory in today's witchcraft and pagan practices.

Laylla: So grab your wand and your incense, your cauldron and your crystals, and join us as we get back on the broomstick.

Laylla: Hi, and welcome to Back on the Broomstick. I'm Laylla, and I am very happy to introduce today's guest, the Reverend Laura González, aka the Blue Witch. Laura is a minister of Circle Sanctuary and a spiritual and community healer whose practice beautifully weaves together traditional Mexican folk magic, native philosophies, North American paganism within the goddess tradition. Reverend Laura is a writer, and you might know some of her work from books like Dream Witchery by Alophia Leafar, which we actually reviewed in a Solarium episode. She's also the incredible voice behind the podcast Lunatic Mondays and Paganos del Mundo. One of the many things that I love about Laura is how she intertwines her spiritual practice with community activism. She's a fierce advocate for indigenous, pagan, and LGBTQIA communities, and she's deeply passionate about women's rights, suicide prevention, and diversity inclusion. She's also been reading tarot professionally for over 12 years and leads both in-person and online goddess circles and classes. Chelle and I are very happy to welcome Laura González to the show. Welcome.

Laura: Thank you so much for such beautiful introduction, and I have to say, the first comment is like, it feels so weird to be on this side, but it's also so cool to be on this side, you know, to be able to talk about all the things.

Chelle: And we appreciate you taking the time because you are a busy lady. 'Tis the season. Everybody's really busy right now, but we want to start with how Laylla met you. Laylla met you at the World Parliament of Religions. Let's talk about that for a quick second because I wasn't there, unfortunately.

Laylla: I did meet you at the Parliament of World Religions. You gave the most beautiful opening prayer. You gave the opening, the first blessing, making history as the first woman and the first pagan to open the proceedings. I loved it. You gave a a chant, a prayer to the goddess Tonantzin, and you then also did an opening prayer in both Spanish and English that was absolutely beautiful.

Laura: Yeah.

Laylla: But then, I got to participate in a workshop that you presented with Selena Fox and Karen Gredeman about podcasting, about being podcasters. But what was it like to be at the Parliament of World Religions and present the opening prayer? Tell us a little bit about that first.

Laura: So first, I would like to, as much as I would like to take all that credit, it's been set up straight. The record has been set up straight. I was not the first pagan on stepping on the main stage. There was another gentleman who was a very young person in 1992 in Spain. He's the son of an elder whose name, of course, I'm forgetting right now because why would I remember?

Laylla: Future Laylla will pop in with the information. No problem. Oh, I've been summoned. Future Laylla here. According to the Wild Hunt editors, the Blue Witch is correct. The first pagan to speak at an open plenary at the Parliament was Donovan Arthen, and this happened in Barcelona in 2004. He was 16 at the time. Future Laylla out.

Laura: But I am indeed the first pagan woman indigenous who was. And where the confusion began is because not only the first pagan indigenous woman at Parliament of 2023, but I was the first woman period on the stage after it was men after men after men after men after men for the first, I think, 45 minutes. So, what my friend, oh, I get I'm getting goosebumps. My friends were very excited, and I'm not name-dropping, but she's my friend, Byron Ballard is the one that caught the fact that I was the first woman speaking. And then she worded like, "Oh, this is the first woman indigenous pagan blah, blah, blah." And then it caught on like first ever, but she meant first at Parliament.

Laylla: No, Byron Ballard, Phyllis Curott, they say things, we listen.

Laura: We do.

Laylla: We do.

Laura: And and the thing, Laylla and Chelle, when that caught up and people started to say, "You're the first blah, blah, blah," I was just telling people, "I'm the first Laura González." That that was my thing, you know, like I I was standing there with all the intersections that hold me back, and I'm speaking first person here, right? Being indigenous, being pagan, being immigrant, being brown, being fat, being vegan, being witch, being woman. All of those things are all these intersections. I am like a viaduct.

Laylla: Yes, yes. You're like a beautiful Gordian knot.

Laura: Right. And and so, it was a moment of extreme spirituality and at the same time, of course, of extreme pride. And then how it all came to be though, that that is what is the magical thing because I had, like everybody else who is a speaker at Parliament, you know, I had applied, I had submitted my work, you know, workshops and topics of conversations and group panels and single panels and this and that.

Chelle: Waiting for acceptance.

Laura: Oh my god, the the, you know, like biting your nails on like, are they going to take me?

Chelle: We know, we know.

Laura: And then it's like, and then you have to pay to get in, which, and I will say, I mean, this show is all going to be political. If you don't like political pagans, then I guess you're on the wrong show. I'm sorry, but I hope you stay and listen. But people of color don't have the same access that other folks do. So, it's it becomes pricey, you know, even with the group discount that we have as members of Circle Sanctuary. It's kind of pricey, but it was such a historical thing. So, I'm like, I don't care. I'm going to save money. I'm going to do it. So, I did it. And then about two weeks before Parliament, I get an email, as one does, from Phyllis Curott.

Laylla: What?

Laura: Or her team. I I must I I can't recall, but I think it was her team.

Chelle: I would have stared at the computer for 10 minutes before I even opened it.

Laura: But then it was her later because they said, um, it was her because she said, "I want you on the opening ceremony. Don't faint. I want you to speak blah, blah, blah." And then I remember that I replied, "Faint? I'm back."

Chelle: With two weeks' notice?

Laura: With two weeks' notice.

Laylla: Wow.

Laura: And then she said to me, "I want to invite you to do a goddess blessing." And then it just occurred to me, you know, let's do the Tonantzin chant, which is to our great mother. So, it's not one a one particular goddess, but is, you know, the concept of our of our great mother. And it's a mid-century chant. It's not like, you know, 500-year-old chant. You can Google it. You can find it. But to perform it live in front of whatever many people at Parliament.

Laylla: Whew.

Laura: And then, uh, the prayer, and she was like, "Come up with a prayer." And I have a friend, my dear friend and colleague, Christian Ortiz, with whom I've been walking this path for over a decade. He wrote this beautiful prayer for the goddess, and I asked him, you know, "Do you allow me Can you allow me to use it?" I translated that way, way before because I've shared it before on other spaces. So, when I told Phyllis, "Well, I have this, this, and that," and she's like, "I want you to do Nahuatl." And then, which is the language of our people, one of the many languages of the many peoples in Mexico.

Laylla: Mhm.

Laura: So, the chant is in Nahuatl, modern modern Nahuatl, and then the prayer was as it was originally written in Spanish and then in English. And it was to say to you that that was a magical moment, just to plan on doing it. But then, uh, I asked Phyllis, "Do you want me on regalia, or do you want me" And she's like, "No, no, no. Regalia, please." And I'm like, "Okay." So, you know, I do my thing. My my regalia, particularly my face painting is black, and the dress is white. So, it's like Very striking. Don't touch. Don't move. Don't sweat. Don't laugh. Don't scratch your nose. Because the lines go over your forehead, right over your nose, and then under your chin. And these are the mirrors of Tezcatlipoca.

Laylla: They were perfect. You must not have touched a thing because those lines were sharp. But real quickly, you you called those those lines something specific. Does that makeup have meaning?

Laura: Yes, they are the lines. So, oh, how much time do we have? There are four main forces of nature on the on one of the traditions of our people, the one that I follow, obviously. And these four forces of nature are called Tezcatlipoca. So, they are four, the white Tezcatlipoca, the blue Tezcatlipoca, the red Tezcatlipoca, and the black Tezcatlipoca. The other three have a alternative name. So, this this are famous. You've heard this before, Ehecatl-Quetzalcoatl, Xipe Totec, and Huitzilopochtli. These guys are like super well-known, or most people you you hear it and you're like, "I've heard that before." But Tezcatlipoca is not as well-known, and people who know the name Tezcatlipoca, they think about the way the colonizers depicted as, um, a demon, a devil, an entity that is there to control you. What Tezcatlipoca is, I could not finish tell you what Tezcatlipoca is in a lifetime. But my responsibility with my people is to summarize in a way that is easy to grasp. I'm the mirror, right? So, my job is to be the mirror and to help, right? To help people to go deep into themselves, to help people recognize themselves, to do shadow work, to, you know, the words have been so watered down, but the true shadow work that is looking into the mirror. And so, the lines represent pieces of obsidian or obsidian mirrors.

Laylla: Okay.

Laura: And the other Tezcatlipoca people that have those responsibilities within the community, they will do the lines in different colors, so like red, blue, and, um, yellow, and mine is black. So, I happen to be the one with the black lines, and, um, they're supposed to be black with a gray outline, but I did not do the outline because I was like,

Laylla: It was very striking. You looked amazing, powerful, beautiful, and I got chills. I mean, even rewatching it, you can watch this on YouTube. I will put links to all of this for everyone if you want to go check out this absolutely gorgeous invocation. I mean, I I got chills when you started with the rattle and then did the chant. I I did not understand the language, but I understood, you know?

Laura: Yeah. I truly believe that's what happened with a lot of people that there is a lot of extractivism in our cultures, right? Um, indigenous cultures, and it's a conversation that a lot of people don't want to have, the extractivism that happens with indigenous cultures within the pagan community. And so, the chant for Tonantzin is, again, is a little earworm that a lot of people may or may not be familiar with, but it's it's been, uh, taken out of context a lot. And the silver lining, if there is one, is that a lot of people kind of get familiar. And I also think, Laylla, that is cellular memory, you know?

Laylla: Yeah.

Laura: There is a lot of that memory.

Laylla: That shared history that, you know, you go back in DNA and sure.

Laura: I mean, the drum is the heartbeat. But the best part of it all that a lot of people don't know, so this is like I've said it before, but it's like exclusive. So, I've been told, right, by Phyllis Curott, like one does, "Come with your regalia, come here early, da, da, da." Uh, we all remember the snafus with registration the very first day. It was a nightmare. And I'm there with my smoke and my popochcomitl and my things, and I'm ready to go. And then I'm like, "Where do I line up? Where do I line up?" And then, of course, Twila York finds out for me, where do I need to be and what do I need to do. And there's a person with a clipboard and a headset, right? And the person with the clipboard comes to me and she's like, "Okay, so what are you looking for?" And I'm like, "Where do we line up for the for the procession?" "Okay, what's your name?" And I say, "Laura González." And she goes, "Oh, okay. So, she goes first and everybody else lined up behind her."

Chelle: I would have been panic-stricken, panic-stricken.

Laura: And I was like, "Come again?" And and it was like that. So, indigenous folks at the first line, which in this case, it was me, and then the African drummers right behind me, and then so on and so forth, uh, all indigenous peoples of the of the world. And then, um, I have, please forgive me, I forget his name, the man who is the liaison of indigenous affairs with Parliament of the World's Religions. I, for the life of me, can never remember his name.

Laylla: I don't know. I was just a lowly volunteer. No one told me anything.

Laura: He came to me and he said, "Walk slow. Right before entering the the place, a couple of women are going to join us." And I'm like, "Okay." So, here I am. Here comes Phyllis, and I'm told to light up the smoke medicine, you know. We call it popochcomitl, and it's not smudging. We call it just smoking. This is with copal, you know, traditional resin from trees in Mexico. And here comes Phyllis, and she starts taking medicine, and I'm like, "May I?" And, you know, and I start doing the thing. And it is so surreal because I hear like a million, uh, camera flashes. Where are those photos? I need those photos.

Laylla: Yeah.

Laura: The whole the whole time at Parliament was such an amazing, amazing experience. And the I've heard before that when you go to Parliament, you're never the same, and it has been true for me. And I I think it's been true for you as well. I mean, I saw you at that workshop about podcasting, and and I had just been doing this podcast for a couple months, and now here we are. And and you, you are just busy, busy, busy doing so many things. You're teaching online goddess circles, and, uh, you had a series, Decolonizing the Goddess, which was absolutely wonderful. Are you continuing those as well?

Laura: Yes. I I have to agree, definitely transformative, the experience of Parliament. Not only because you get to connect with all these folks, right? Like I get to walk alongside, uh, Grandmother Mary Lyons, right? To to come into like, wow, like somebody pinch me. But the transformative aspect of you meet a lot of people, you make a lot of friends, you bond with those friends because you're having the exact same experience.

Chelle: But you're also doing something impactful for this community as well.

Laura: And the way that I called the divine goddess, the way that the goddess came at me after Parliament, it was like, "I need you whole." I don't claim the goddess talks to me and has me on a rotary phone. This has been a lot of downloads.

Laylla: Yeah.

Laura: After many, many like sessions of, you know, introspection and etcetera. And the message that I'm telling you, which is now put together, right, but it took a bunch of time is, um, "I'm tired of you doing the pagan thing here and the indigenous thing here. I need you whole." And because I have a very clear knowledge of where pagan ends and where indigenous begins, and she wants me to do that work, and she wants me to do it for our people. There's a whole bunch of Mexican-American folks that are orphaned, spiritually. They live in a liminal space, which is they're not American from the United States. They are American. They're just not from the United States, as people would put it that way. Uh, and they're also not Mexican, as people would put it that way. They're both, but for some people, they're neither.

Laylla: And liminal spaces are not easy.

Laura: They're not easy. I, like I say, with all my beautiful asterisks of things that intersect me, I also live in a liminal space. So, a lot of changes after Parliament, and the main one, very, very clear, it was, "You're done with markets and festivals and doing tarot readings. You're not a tarot reader." And I'm not saying this by any means in a derogatory way. I've been making the way in this planet by reading tarot for over a decade, right, getting paid. And I still do. I still see people privately. But my main thing is education, and she wants me teaching, and I want to be teaching. So, teaching sometimes pays, and sometimes it doesn't pay. And in our communities, we have like a fetish for published authors, which I love and adore. A lot of my friends who are I mean, a lot of my friends are published authors. But if you don't have a solo book authored by you, it's like you don't get a whole lot of opportunities to teach.

Laylla: That's a damn good point. We definitely do. I've seen that in the pagan communities. If you have a book, you're now the

Chelle: Your quote-unquote a higher authority. And and, you know, Laylla and I have several author friends. We love you all. But there is a line in the sand between if you're an author and not an author. I would agree with that wholeheartedly.

Laura: Yeah. The thing is, because academia will have it that way, still. It is a colonizer concept, right? It's academia concept. And the thing is, uh, friends, what about the lived experience?

Laylla: Right.

Laura: Right? And I'm not saying that, for example, I don't know, Mat Auryn or Phyllis Curott or Alophia Leafar, like they have lived experience, but they do have the time, the resources, the ability to write a book.

Laylla: To write, exactly. And not everybody does.

Chelle: And not everybody does.

Laura: I cannot stop working, period, full stop.

Laylla: Right, right.

Laura: And and I don't have the time to say, "Okay, I'm going to disappear for a month and a half, and I'm going to go write a book." The other thing is like, what do I write the book about? Like, where do we pinpoint, you know? There's so many things that I know.

Chelle: Whereas I can stand up and do an hour, hour and a half workshop in front of 50, 75 people and convey my knowledge that way, that I can do.

Laylla: Yeah.

Chelle: But I can't necessarily take a two-year sabbatical from my mundane day job that pays my bills to write a book.

Laura: And the other part of it is, I come from a tradition of oral tradition. We are oral people. We share our knowledge orally. So when there is this pressure of write a book, write a book, write a book.

Chelle: It's almost hypocritical to write it down in a book if that's what you were taught.

Laura: Yeah, and like people ask me, you know, why don't you write about Day of the Dead? Like you are the expert on Day of the Dead. I'm like, because the holiday keeps evolving every year.

Laylla: What it is now is a very modern thing. Could you tell us a little bit about, I know you teach a class on this, so don't go too much into it, but just tell us a little bit about Day of the Dead for anyone who doesn't know.

Laura: Day of the Dead comes from, like all of us nowadays, Mexican people, we're called Mexican people, right? But we're different, diverse indigenous peoples who have this unfortunate influence of the colonizers and etc, etc. And it's funny because colonizers will be like, you're a brand new race. Like, how? You don't know your ancestors, but you're not one of us. You're something different, which is just, it's emotional warfare.

Laylla: Mhm.

Laura: That's emotional warfare. And there's a huge wound for all of us indigenous people of Mexico there. But back to Day of the Dead. So Day of the Dead, do you guys like Day of the Dead?

Laylla: I do, what I understand of it, which is I guess a very Americanized version of it, as a time to celebrate the lives of people that, in my family, people that I love, setting up an altar, an ofrenda, and putting out marigolds, different flowers, candies, foods that they enjoyed, and just celebrating their life. That's what I understand it, right around November 2nd.

Laura: Yeah, that is exactly the, go ahead, Chelle.

Chelle: This isn't necessarily my understanding of it because I don't understand it very much, to be completely honest with you. And here is where my question to you comes. So I don't know much about it. I am not of Mexican descent. So if I were to celebrate the Day of the Dead, is that considered appreciation or appropriation? Because there's a fine line, and I want to know your opinion on that because there's a lot of appropriation going on right now that's not appreciation. And you know, let's just say that might be something, you know, I would want to look into, you know, I obviously want to honor my ancestors, you know, ancestor altars and all of that. But is it appreciation or appropriation? Because that, I think people need to know the difference.

Laura: They love our culture. They love the colorful Day of the Dead. They love our food. They love our music. They love our women. They love our language. They love tacos. They love Day of the Dead and the sugar skulls. They love the altars. They love the guacamole and they put it on everything. They love our cuisine. They really, really love Day of the Dead and all the traditions that are attached to it. They love to go to Mexico on vacation and they love to go to the beaches. And they really love how we welcome them, whether we welcome them in Mexico or we welcome them here when they come to our spaces. They really love our culture like nobody's business. They just don't love us.

Laylla: And that's the problem.

Laura: You know.

Chelle: I don't, my mindset, I can't wrap my head around that. But I see what you're saying, but that's just horrible.

Laura: And so to answer your question, first, first I want to ask Laylla a question and then I will answer yours, Chelle.

Chelle: Sure, sure.

Laura: The Day of the Dead is, and I ask you if you liked it because the original Day of the Dead holidays were 20 days each. So it was a 40-day period.

Laylla: Oh.

Laura: In which we celebrate and we honor the departed. First the little kids and then the elderly, adults and elderly folks. And fruits, marigolds, and dances, and burning smoke and all of that. Then when the colonizers came to what is now Mexico, they bring their traditions of All Saints' Day and All Souls' Day. And those traditions were already very much infused with pagan traditions. And so Day of the Dead, modern now, 2024 Day of the Dead, is an amalgamation of Indo-European pagan traditions dressed as Catholic traditions, plus Central Mexico holidays for the dead that have evolved and now they're intertwined into this one thing that we call Day of the Dead, part of human's heritage of the world.

Laylla: Mhm.

Laura: So by the United Nations, and a beautiful, beautiful festival, which is indeed to celebrate and to honor those who have lived. And as I said before, is not a one thing because we are not a monolith. People don't realize Mexico is also continental, just like the United States. And Mexicans are not only in Mexico, the border crossed us here in the United States, but then we also have moved throughout the planet. And now there are Day of the Dead celebrations throughout the planet that they take their own little flavor. But in the continental Mexico, it's also celebrated differently. So that is also why a book, a full book of Day of the Dead cannot exist because it's like each little town has their own traditions. With that said, I don't speak for all Mexicans, so I cannot say hands off, don't touch it. I can't because I don't, I'm not the representative of all Mexicans who celebrate Day of the Dead. What I can say, and I will say until my face is blue, is do you want to learn about these traditions? Go to Mexican people. Go to indigenous people. Do you want to be part of the celebration? Go where it's celebrated by Mexican and indigenous people. Do you want to set up an altar? Go to where we share our altars. Do you want to get in touch with your ancestors? Find the traditions of your people because I guarantee you that our traditions of your people, of your ancestors, are just as beautiful. They might not be as colorful because for us death is about flowers, is about food, is about singing and dancing and...

Chelle: Celebration.

Laura: You know, it's, it's very unique. And there is a meme that is going around, and of course they start going around this time of year, what it says, "Till death do us part does not apply to Mexicans." And that kind of summarizes all for us. We cry when our loved ones died, but there is a certainty that they come back. And there are people in Mexico who are Christian, Catholic, atheist, pagan, indigenous, or otherwise, it doesn't matter. Everybody believes that they come back on November 1st and 2nd. And then you have the indigenous people that still practice like us, and it just ended, you know, it's like mid-August to early September are the time for the dead. And we honor them and we do dances and all of that. And they come, they come, they come because they come. They do. And it's just beautiful.

Laylla: This time of year, I know that they're not the same, but there are a lot of, in different cultures, this fall time of year, we all start talking about our dead and our ancestors, and that's a very common, beautiful theme that we have to share. And there's a couple different sayings like, "He who is remembered, lives." And they say that you die twice. The first time is your physical death, and the second time is the last time someone says your name. And I always think about those when people talk about Dia de los Muertos because that's what it's all about, is remembering their name, remembering who they are.

Laura: Yeah.

Laylla: Is there any particular tradition that you wouldn't mind sharing that you love, that's particularly dear to you this time of year?

Laura: I really love, and I want to put an addendum there for Chelle, who asked about appropriation. To be very clear, folks, we don't want you to not be part of it. We don't want you to not come around. Come around. Come and join us. But really, really consume from Mexican people, Mexican-American, indigenous people.

Laylla: Yes, yes.

Laura: The Mattel Barbie Day of the Dead doll is beautiful. Mattel don't need your money. You know who need your money? My friend Mictecacihuatl, who creates art for Day of the Dead and is a single mom and sells it to support her daughters and herself. So that, that's the, that's the reality.

Chelle: If you're interested in it, immerse yourself in that culture, learn from the people from that culture, and educate yourself from that culture.

Laura: Absolutely, Chelle. Absolutely. And that applies to any culture.

Chelle: It absolutely, absolutely.

Laura: Because I'm not going to go to Gwen Stefani to ask about Hindu culture.

Laylla: Right.

Laura: I know, I show my age, right there. So one tradition that I particularly love about Day of the Dead is the setting up of the altar. And I have a grandson by love, and my grandson never met my mother. And my mother is in Mexico. And my mother knew of my grandson, got to see photographs and got to see, got to know about him, but they never met, right? They never met in person.

Chelle: In person, yeah.

Laura: In person. So when we're setting up the altar, unfortunately my stepson, my grandson's father, passed away in 2011. So we really set up a very nice altar for my mother and his father. And I try to make sure that I have my grandson those days. And when we're setting up the altar, I will tell them, you know, we put the coffee because my mama liked black coffee just like your daddy liked black coffee. And we put the dominoes because both your dad and my mom liked to play dominoes and cards. And then there is this ritual that I do for my mother every year, that I open a bag of potato chips and I have to find the foldy ones. You know, the ones that fold over.

Laylla: Yeah, yes.

Laura: Because my mother will pick those out of the bag because the crunchiness of them. So I make sure I put a big bowl of potato chips, but it's only the foldy ones, only the ones that are...

Chelle: I love that.

Laura: And sharing that with my grandson, do I miss my mama? Of course, who doesn't? But sharing that with my grandson, so now, he's 16 now, which is incredible. And sharing that with him, and the little things that I know about his dad, you know, I was around his dad's life for nine years. So, you know, what I remember, which is different...

Chelle: You're helping, you're helping him create memories of people that he didn't have enough time with in the real, in the real face-to-face.

Laura: Yeah, absolutely. And I think, not because that's my favorite part, but I think that is the core of the celebration. And then of course is the, what I think is very healthy for us as humans is giving ourselves permission to mourn. Right? Mourning is something that is so hidden on the culture here in the United States. When a person cries a lot for someone who died...

Laylla: You're told to get over it.

Laura: The fact that people say get over it, I'm like, I will never. I will never, I still cry for my mommy. I mean, not every day, but you know, come Day of the Dead or come Christmas. Oh, I hate Christmas. I don't hate Christmas. I hate Christmas music because it reminds me of my mom so much, you know? And it makes me very weepy. But it's part of the love that you have for them. And, and we believe, we Mexican people, indigenous people, we believe that the relationship don't end. It just is, is, is just different. It just change. They can't talk back at you anymore.

Laylla: Well, tell that to Chelle's story.

Laura: Or can they? Right, right.

Laylla: In an episode just a couple weeks ago, Chelle was talking about one of her traditions on Halloween, on Samhain, is she and her children would leave pieces of candy from trick-or-treating on their ancestor altar for particular grandmothers.

Chelle: I had a grandmother who Halloween was like it for her. It was like her Christmas. She dressed up every year up until she was 83 and passed away. And we always went to her house, no matter where we lived, always packed up the kids, went to her house, saw her on Halloween. And she happened to pass away three days before Halloween. Her costume was already laid out in the guest bedroom. So at first, what we did for several years, my grandmother was big on Coke and cigarettes. So every Halloween...

Laylla: Coke the drink, by the way, people. Don't get any bad thoughts here.

Chelle: You know, the kids and I, we'd crack open a can of soda. They would leave out a piece of candy because my house happened to be just a few doors down from the house that she passed away in. Sometimes they would leave candy out in the front yard of that house. It just, because I don't know if it was the fact that she died so close, she died on the 28th, or if it was because that was like the most important holiday to her. But it's almost like the phone rings on that day. You know what I mean? That spiritual phone is always ringing on that day. And now that I have a grandson, even my daughter has said that when she gets him ready for going out trick-or-treating in costume, she said one time she felt like she heard my grandmother laughing in the background. And I'm like, that's because Gigi was there and she liked the costume and she approved. And you know, I like to keep things out, like she had a cauldron pin that she always wore on Halloween. I keep that out. You know, just kind of remembering things that she liked or things that I have that were hers, kind of make them more prominent around that time. My pictures, a lot of them are in storage right now, but up until recently, I would put out like pictures. It's just, like I said, it might be because it was like her favorite time of year and she passed away at that time. But it's like, like I said, it's like that spiritual phone like rings.

Laura: You're not going to believe this. And these are the beautiful mysteries, right, of the divine. My mother, who does not like to be called or named or anything, she died, she's done, she's gone, and she made it very clear, when I'm done, I'm done, goodbye. But my mom was the old lady that will give out candy on Day of the Dead. And she will go all out, you know, for all the kids on the, on the, on the block. Because in Mexico City, yes, children go, not trick-or-treating, is different, but they go and they get candy. And so that was one of, the favorite season, you know, because for us it's like the Mexican holidays, Independence on September, and then October, a lot of people in the city are already celebrating Halloween just like in the United States. And then Day of the Dead on November, and then of course is Christmas in December. And the whole holidays, fall winter holidays, my mom will be like the happiest. But Day of the Dead was like, you know...

Chelle: The big one for her.

Laura: The fact that I'm obsessed with Day of the Dead is not, you know, a coincidence. I learned that. And my mother passed away on October 27th.

Chelle: Oh geez. Oh geez.

Laylla: You know the two of them are somewhere in the universe conspiring to hand out candy.

Chelle: My grandma was all about full-size chocolate bars. She did not do minis. She was not about the mini life.

Laura: And, and my mom same, you know, she would go, to the point that when I was very, very young, I would get jealous, you know, like, why are you giving all this candy to all these kids? Like, it's my candy. You know, but I was a kid and of course I was jealous.

Chelle: See now, because I was the grandchild, I would go and then when I would take my kids as the great-grandchildren, and we had pre-made bags set aside for us waiting when we got there.

Laura: So cool. So cool. But when you say October 27th, I was like, wait a minute.

Laylla: What a coincidence. Now, I don't want to keep you too terribly much longer, Laura. I know you are a very, very busy witch. You also have, in addition to your classes, your online classes, which we will put links to all of those, in-person in Chicago, which I love your city, by the way. Big pagan presence there.

Chelle: I've never been there. I got to go.

Laylla: Now, you moved there 20-some-odd years ago?

Laura: 25, and 26 now. And the fun fact is I have existed longer in Chicago than I ever did in Mexico City. So it's funny because now when people ask me where you're from, I just naturally say from Chicago. And the truth is I'm from Mexico City. But yeah, we have an amazing community. So my offerings are, I will continue with the Decolonizing the Goddess classes online. We have, we're going to finish the first season, which is all 2024. There's 11 classes, and you can buy those on demand. If you cannot make it live to the classes, you can buy them on demand. And it's all on my website, bluewitch.org. So the first series, the first year is all like the female powerhouses. Our second year, we're going to be doing our female and or queer powerhouses, but we're still going to call it the Decolonizing the Goddess. And the idea is that by 2026, we start tapping into the male powerhouses. So there's going to be the Decolonizing the Goddess classes for a long while. And those are online and you can sign up for them or you can buy them on demand. But we're also doing, speaking about how Parliament of the World's Religions changed my life and how I was told no more markets, no more festivals, no more just tarot, it's taking a toll on my health, it was taking a toll on my wallet, and people want to learn from me. And I want to teach because I love teaching more than anything in the planet. And so we've been doing workshops. We're doing the workshops roughly every six to eight weeks. And they are long workshops. I started three-hour workshops, now they're four-hour workshops. Next year we're going to do a one full-day workshop because we're going to do a sweat lodge, a temazcal. That's on the works. So if you are from out of town, keep an eye on all things Blue Witch because I really want to have people experience that, but in a way that like the way we do it. And it takes a lot of time. It's a whole day ordeal. So we're going to learn about what is on the works is learn about the deity and then go in into the Temazcal. But that is 2025. Right now, next month, I'm going to be doing one on Fortuna's Embrace, healing our relationship with wealth, because it's very important for people of color and otherwise people, people, people. My offerings are more geared towards of course, the black and brown indigenous pagan community, BIPOC, because racist people will be racist without knowing. They said to be, "Now that you identify as BIPOC," I'm like, "I was born BIPOC." What do you mean now? It's racist people. But anyway, so yeah, I'm not saying my offerings are not for all kinds of people, but I'm prioritizing the disenfranchised and the so-called disenfranchised. It's just there's not a whole lot of opportunities for us. So we are prioritizing that the people that want the knowledge gets to come. So a lot of my offerings have like a sliding scale.

Laylla: I was going to mention that, that that's one of the things I I love when I go to your workshops online. You do have a sliding scale for people so that there is, you know, if you can pay full price, please do, but if you can't, you need a little discount, you have that offer there. And I I thought that was really, really nice.

Chelle: And Laura, on behalf of folks all around the world that don't always have the funds required, thank you for offering the sliding scale, because that makes a difference to some people, and that can really make the difference between whether they're able to attend or not. So thank you for that.

Laura: Thank you. And and know that I'm one of those people. I'm one of those people that I would like to go Like there are offerings online for like psychological training or like psychological magic, this and that.

Chelle: Who's got thousands of dollars? Because none of the three of us do.

Laura: There are thousands and thousands of thousands.

Laylla: Yeah.

Laura: I'm like, no. So we're going to keep it real, and we're going to keep the sliding scale. So, the Colonized Negatus is a fixed price, right? But the online goddess circles that are still going, those are sliding scale. And online goddess circles evolved from women's circles, because the online community, I I started doing a lot of work first in 2009, 2015, like from 2009 to 2015, most of my ministry was online. So a lot of people are still seeking that. And the goddess circles, the women's circles evolved into goddess circles because I have people of all genders. And I don't believe that the goddess is only for people with a vulva, and I'm not checking genitals at the door.

Laylla: Thank you. Thank you.

Laura: It's just like, this is the 21st century. Can you join us here? So we have a wonderful community of our online goddess circles. Those are sliding scale. And we're continue building a community for the workshops. We just did one a few weeks ago on Chalchiuhtlicue or sacred waters.

Laylla: Yeah.

Laura: And it was a beautiful, transformative experience because we go with this indigenous goddess and what her message is, and we tap into like eco-activism and emotional or emotional self and shadow work and community. And it's just beautiful. And then we do ritual. Within the workshop, there is a ritual. And I'm going to keep offering those. Like I say, next month, we're going to do the Fortuna one. But I'm also going to be teaching this month here in Chicago. So if you're local to Chicago, go to Mestiza Shop on historic 18th Street in Pilsen. I will be teaching Origins and Traditions of the Day of the Dead.

Laylla: Oh, nice.

Laura: That is more of a how-to class. So how to celebrate, how to do it, why we do it, where it comes from. And that is going to be the only Day of the Dead class that I'm doing in person this year. Mestiza got me. Mestiza wanted me, Mestiza got me. And it was just beautiful because Suheiry and I got together in I think July, and I'm like, "If you want it, you need to put a pin on it now."

Laylla: Yeah.

Laura: Because I have people calling me now like, "I want a reading on October 26th." And I'm like, "Of 2025?"

Laylla: This is the witchy busy season. This is the season of the witch. The season of the blue witch, apparently.

Laura: The season of the blue witch. So we're going to be at Fair of Fortunes at Molly Ward Brothers the next day, just doing tarot readings because of course, it's October. And I'm going to be doing the Ancestors Summit online, an offering from Wendy Mata, Bruja Power. And I'm going to be teaching Day of the Dead Masterclass.

Laylla: Oh, okay.

Laura: That is going to be online.

Laylla: Did you send me links for that? Cuz I'm interested.

Laura: The links for that, believe it or not, drop I mean, they drop Yeah, you have links.

Laylla: Okay, I'll get them. I'll get them.

Laura: And that is going to be an amazing thing because it is free to attend.

Laylla: Oh, wow.

Laura: And then you can opt in to buy the recordings, and then you can access those unlimited time. And I'm going to throw a bonus class for that, which is going to be an Ancestors Spells class.

Laylla: Oh.

Laura: Because I have a bunch of classes that I sell on demand as well.

Laylla: Mhm.

Laura: So we're going to throw that bonus there. And, last but not least, I'm also going to be at Circle Sanctuary because it's their 50th anniversary jubilee.

Laylla: The end of the month, right?

Laura: The end of the month, we're going to be there, October 25, 26, 27. So I'm If you see me and if you just see me waving,

Laylla: We'll wave as you run by.

Laura: I love you, but I'm running into something else. I also have a wedding on November that I'm officiating, so it's like, on top of that, a wedding.

Chelle: Now, Laura, please tell all the listeners, where can they find your classes, your schedule, if they want to book a reading? Where are you on the socials?

Laura: bluewitch.org. bluewitch.org. We don't do .com because it wasn't available, and because we're special. We're very well organized. No, bluewitch.org, and all the things Blue Witch are there. On-demand classes, new offerings, workshops, in-person, online, blah, blah, blah. The best place to go find me everywhere is to go to bluewitch.org. Before I go, I know I'm already because you invited a talker to your to your show, so I'm going to talk.

Laylla: Good, cuz I still have two questions.

Laura: All right, beautiful. But let me shout out to Andrea Fernanda, my business manager, and to Sunny Mulcahy, my personal assistant, and to Lisa Chavez, who are now the Blue Witch team.

Laylla: I'm so jealous you have a team. It's so awesome for you.

Laura: You know what? I must have done I must have done something incredible in this lifetime because these three people are keeping me sane, keeping me afloat, and I wouldn't be able to do half of the things. There's 12 events for

Laylla: Yes, we need you to be able to teach and to share.

Laura: And then, of course, my husband. So, you know, it's like, it's five people on the team.

Chelle: See, I I look at Laylla and I as we're our team, and and the husbands are like the backup dancers.

Laura: There you go. I like that.

Laylla: Real quick before I let you go, I just have two silly little questions.

Laura: Shoot.

Laylla: The first one is on your YouTube, you do oracles for the week, and you use quite a few different decks from what I've seen. You don't stick to one particular deck. Do you have a favorite oracle or tarot deck that you have used?

Laura: Absolutely. So that is the Coffee Breaks that we've been doing since 2018. And usually Monday, Wednesday, Friday, but sometimes I can't do it cuz busy.

Laylla: I see.

Laura: My favorite favorite tarot deck, about a decade old, Legacy of the Divine by Ciro Marchetti.

Chelle: Ooh, do you have that one, Chelle? That's a good one. I do.

Laura: And anything by Ciro Marchetti, I like. I I'm just mesmerized by his art, cuz it's like mix. It's like manual and computer, so I really like it. And when it comes to tarot decks, I really like his work, specifically Legacy of the Divine, but he has like two or three that I like. And when it come to oracles, I really love Stacey Demarco.

Chelle: I watched one of your episodes recently where you had like six of her decks.

Laura: Yes. And I keep telling the people that come to the Coffee Break like, "Do you guys recommend other oracles? Should we go buy stuff?" Like, and everyone's like, "No, you have a relationship with with Stacey." Cuz I know her. I bought her decks, and then I found her online, and then I invited her to my podcast. So we have we're not besties, we don't have coffee once a month, but we have a good relationship, right? So I feel certainly a personal connection with the person that wrote the oracles. And I was just recently shopping online like, "Which ones she came out with new ones that I don't have?" Cuz I want to go buy them. So anything by Stacey Demarco is a really good oracle, and the way she writes puts like a rhyme or like a little spell on every one of the oracles, and I really like that. She's very talented, and she's a no-holds-barred witch from I don't want to mistakenly say, I think Australia, but I might be mistaken.

Laylla: Hey, no-holds-barred is our kind of witch. We like that.

Laura: Yes, she's amazing. She's amazing.

Laylla: My last question is going to be for you in particular, Laura, but also Chelle, you and I should also answer this. It's a little irreverent, but considering that, you know, this is the season of the witch, it's the spooky season, we're honoring ancestors across the globe in all sorts of different cultures, and food seems to be pretty common. When people talk about honoring their ancestors, we all talk about food. So, since you said recently in one of your YouTubes, Laura, that we don't all live forever,

Laura: Yeah.

Laylla: and since we don't live forever, when you have gone, what food will be used to call you for your your descendants? How will they call you as an ancestor? What food?

Laura: The answer is going to surprise everybody because it's the most not Mexican food on the planet. I want a mountain of french fries

Laylla: Mm.

Laura: with a gallon of ranch dressing, which will not upset my stomach because I'm dead. Cuz I'm vegan. I'm vegan vegetarian. And buried underneath the french fries, I want like 10 pieces of chicken tenders.

Laylla: Mm, okay.

Laura: They have to be chicken. Now, mind you, I've been vegan for 5 years now, so

Laylla: Your ghost doesn't have to be a vegan, though.

Laura: No, when when I'm dead, it can be real chicken tenders and french fry.

Chelle: You know, I I'm going to have to do the exact opposite, and and my children will back me up on this. Tacos and queso. Tacos and queso. In a gallon of lemon iced tea. You want to get You want to bring me back, get the Turkey Hill tea and a damn taco, and I'm here.

Laylla: There you go.

Laura: Awesome. How about you, Laylla?

Laylla: Mine would be anything spicy, the spicier the better, and a big old plate of oatmeal raisin cookies. Although, all of these, french fries with the chicken tenders, tacos, it's a feast.

Chelle: In 50 years, if you're really hungry, have the munchies, you need to summon me, Laylla, and Laura, because it'll be a damn feast.

Laylla: There you go. Absolutely.

Laura: And I keep telling people, jokingly obviously, you know, but can you imagine, I have taught people about Day of the Dead so many times, here, there, and everywhere, and like, you need to put me on your altar. If I'm dead and I don't have my photograph in like 20 altars, I'm going to be upset.

Chelle: You'll be haunting some people.

Laylla: People are going to have to answer to a very angry, ghosty Laura.

Laura: I hope not.

Laylla: You've touched a lot of people, Laura, and and when I see people react to you on these YouTube, you're so friendly and open, and you have such great insight for people, so I am not surprised that you are a minister to your community because you you definitely have that spirit. So thank you for sharing that with us.

Laura: Thank you. Thank you so much, and thank you for having me. It's been my pleasure to meet you, Laylla, and to reconnect with you, Laylla. And all the blessings that we have in life, right? We can choose to go down and cry and feel sorry about ourselves, or we can choose to use those to lift ourselves up and be lifted by our community and then return the favor and lift them up. And I think I'm a talker. I just need to talk. People just give me the opportunity to speak, please, so I can do it.

Laylla: Right? Well, you have podcasts, you have your YouTube channel, you have your classes. We'd love to hear you talk, so thank you. Thank you.

Chelle: I want I want I can't wait for the opportunity to meet you in person because I know it's going to happen.

Laura: I am looking forward to that.

Laylla: We will put links to all of your upcoming events so people can find you online and in person. And finally, a last thank you to Laura González for joining us on Back on the Broomstick.

Chelle: Thank you so much, Laura. Appreciate it.

Laura: Thank you. Thank you so much for having me. Good night.

Laylla: Have a good night.

Laura: Good night.

Laylla: Thank you so much for listening to this episode of Back on the Broomstick with the Blue Witch, Laura González. If you'd like more information on where and when you can get a class or a reading from Laura, we have links for all of that in the show description. And if you'd like more Back on the Broomstick, you can check us out on our website, Facebook, YouTube, and Instagram, all of them Back on the Broomstick. And if you liked our episode, please tell a friend, leave us a review, some stars, some some likes, give us a thumbs up. It really helps the show out, and Chelle and I appreciate it. We hope you're having a wonderful Season of the Witch, and we will see you on our next episode. Keep it witchy.
