Laylla: Welcome to Back on the Broomstick, a modern witches' spoken word grimoire, where two witchy friends from way back are reconnecting to their pagan roots after a long period of mundanity.

Chelle: We're rewalking the path of the wise and trying out all the latest spells, rituals, and magical theory in today's witchcraft and pagan practices.

Laylla: So grab your wand and your incense, your cauldron and your crystals, and join us as we get back on the broomstick.

Chelle: Hi, and welcome to Back on the Broomstick. I'm Laylla, and in this episode, we'll be talking about witchcraft and magic in movies. Samhain is the perfect time of year to curl up with a favorite witchy movie. Is there any real magic in Hollywood? Chelle and I watched a few classic Halloween favorites to find out.

Laylla: But, here's what we're going to kind of pick apart. What's real and what's not in these Hollywood movies? Because I'll tell you, I've got a couple movies where I was like, "You know, hey, I've kind of done that before." So, we got some movies we're going to chat about. What's real, what's not, where we at.

Chelle: We are deep in the season of the witch heading towards Samhain, so we will also throw in some Samhain tips and tricks for you from some of these facts in the movies. And the movies we'll be talking about today are some of my favorite to watch this spooky time of year. We are going to be talking about magic from Practical Magic.

Laylla: I can't wait for part two to come out.

Chelle: Me either. The Craft, the original, not the remake.

Laylla: Great movie.

Chelle: And Hocus Pocus, a seasonal favorite.

Laylla: I feel like Hocus Pocus in October is like Rudolph and Frosty the Snowman in December.

Chelle: Yes, it really is. My kids and I used to have a pact that we would not watch Hocus Pocus until October 1st. But as soon as October 1st came, it was no holds barred. We watched that thing over and over again. I love that movie.

Laylla: Me and my sweet love, what we do about the end of September every year is we pluck out all of our what we call Halloween-related movies, and then we watch all of those movies each night throughout the month. Aside from Rocky Horror always being at the top of the list, Hocus Pocus, Practical Magic, The Craft, they always get pulled out. I mean, obviously, we feel witchy all year long, but, you know, 'tis the season to be witchy.

Chelle: We've been having a lot of fun with authors and pagans that we know, some amazing witches that we've had on the show. So it was kind of fun to relax and kick back and watch a couple movies.

Laylla: Well, and honestly, again, 'tis the season. I don't know about you, but here in like New England, it's like 40-something at night now. It is like time to hunker down, cuddle in, have a movie, some hot tea, and just, yeah, like, yeah, it's movie season. It got dark and cold really fast.

Chelle: So the idea for this episode came because, you know, I was watching Practical Magic, and the midnight margaritas scene came on, and I was like, "Hey, that sounds awfully familiar. That sounds like a spell." And it is.

Laylla: Put the lime in the coconut, you mix it all together. First of all, why do you only, you can have margaritas any time of the day, by the way.

Chelle: True. Margaritas are more of like an anytime kind of thing. But, you know, in the Owens' house, got to listen to the aunties.

Laylla: Can I just say, how can you not like a crone-type witch played by Stockard Channing?

Chelle: I love the aunts so much. Oh my goodness.

Laylla: I can't remember the other aunt's real-world name. She's been in a billion movies.

Chelle: The amazing Dianne Wiest.

Laylla: The two of them together, spot on. And who hasn't loved Stockard Channing since Grease?

Chelle: Oh, seriously. But one of the things that the sisters, the aunts, say is a poem, and it's a poem actually from Macbeth, Shakespeare's Macbeth.

Laylla: Do tell.

Chelle: "Eye of newt and toe of frog, wool of bat and tongue of dog, adder's fork and blind-worm's sting, Barbados lime is just the thing. Fragile salt like a sailor's stubble, flip the switch and let the cauldron bubble." And that's when they, they make the margaritas. And that poem is actually mostly from Macbeth, until the lime part.

Laylla: And then we start singing, "Put the lime in the coconut."

Chelle: That's right. But I love that scene because those are actually, really, truly herbs that are, they're like code names. They're like secret witchy-sounding code names for real herbs.

Laylla: Now, I just want to point out, since we're starting with Practical Magic, this came out at a time which was kind of poignant for, for me. I don't know about you. This came out in 1998. So, I was only really maybe seven, eight years into witchcraft at that point in a small town in upstate New York where knowledge is limited. I was like, "Oh my god, a witch movie. Oh my god."

Chelle: To see witches portrayed as pretty and not old and ugly.

Laylla: Not old and ugly. That was the thing. It was like they're not portrayed as like these evil hags, you know? But there are some things that aren't quite so real, and then there are some things that are maybe not real per se, but are based on real things. So let's chat about those things.

Chelle: Like the herbs that I was talking about. Those are actual real herbs that they speak of. Eye of newt is mustard seed, and that's used to protect against evil. It's for increasing courage and strength. Toe of frog is a buttercup, which I had no idea, and that is also for protection. Wing of bat or wool of bat is moss, and that provides grounding and stability, and it's often used to connect to nature and to manifest prosperity. Can also be protection. Tongue of dog is houndstongue, and that flower is used for loyalty and communication. Adder's fork is dogtooth violet, and that's for transformation and change. Blind-worm's sting is wormwood, and that is a, a very powerful protection herb as well. Barbados lime, that's for purification. Fragile salt like a sailor's stubble, also black salt can be used for protection. Fragile salt is actually a black salt. Not a magical black salt, but an actual colored black salt.

Laylla: Physically looking black salt.

Chelle: Yeah. So you could use that for protection as well. So basically, when they're doing that spell for the midnight margaritas, the aunts don't know it, but they're casting a protection spell, even though they were not yet aware that there was an evil spirit in their midst. So you can use those if you wanted to make your own protection spell for Samhain, or I like the idea of putting a bunch of those things in like a, a spell jar or, or a spell vase. You can put your salt and your moss in the bottom and build it up like a little spell jar. But that's a real thing in the movie.

Laylla: The next thing I kind of want to just bring up, they're in the car. Remember when they were in the car with Jimmy? Was that his name?

Chelle: Yes, in the backseat.

Laylla: Backseat, yeah. And they used the belladonna. Because what they used it for is to kind of knock him out.

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: And that really has a magical use for kind of, I don't want to say putting you in like a dreamlike state, but they have used that as like a hallucinogenic.

Chelle: I don't recommend taking it at all. None at all. Just like in the movie, it can kill you.

Laylla: Oh, jeez, no. But I think that the premise of that is valid.

Chelle: Yeah, so the herbs that they used in, that they talk about in that movie are correct. The other thing I really liked about that movie was the aunts in the beginning, when the sisters are very young, and the, the woman comes to the door and she wants a love spell because...

Laylla: Can I just tell you that scene annoyed me, and let me tell you why. I'm, I'm interrupting you, and I know that.

Chelle: That's okay. Tell me why. I'm curious.

Laylla: That is the epitome of the people who kind of pick on us and, and make fun of us, and when I say us, I mean kind of witches and pagans as a whole. There are people in the world that will mock the shit out of us until they want something magical.

Chelle: That's 100% what happened in the movie. You're, you're absolutely right.

Laylla: Yeah, and I feel like the, the representation of that woman was like someone who might scoff at them out in public until she wants the love spell. You know what I mean?

Chelle: Yeah, that's exactly what they were trying to portray there. I mean, with the townspeople constantly picking on them, but, you know, of course, they come around to the back door.

Laylla: In the shadows. There's a damn line out back of them.

Chelle: But what I really liked was the one aunt, Jet, said, "Are you sure this is what you really want? There are better ways to find love." She literally tried to talk her out of it. And she also gives her a warning. So the whole spell, they take a lock of the person's hair, and they have this dove and a long, long pin that they give to this woman, who then has to kill the dove as she asks for what she wants.

Laylla: That's not real, people, by the way. Not real. Poking a dove with a pin? Who the hell does that? Nobody does that. Well, I haven't done that.

Chelle: Not in our tradition.

Laylla: Not in our tradition.

Chelle: Hey, witches. Future Laylla here, just popping in quickly to make it very clear that animal sacrifice is and has been a valid part of several traditions. It just happens to not be one of our traditions. Future Laylla out.

Chelle: Jet even tells her, "When that happens, be careful what you wish for." So they try, they gave this woman every opportunity to back out, and she was insistent on doing this shitty spell anyway. So, I don't know, I just liked that they showed that aspect.

Laylla: On the flip side of that, fast forward to when Sally does a love spell for herself.

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: She lists all these qualities that she says are impossible so that she'll never have to fall in love.

Chelle: "I want a man with two different colored eyes." Right. "The star is his favorite symbol." You know, all of those things. That's the kind of love spell I agree with, and that is, that is a more realistic view of witchcraft.

Laylla: I agree. That's putting out there the qualities that you want in a lover. Blowing the leaves out into the wind, into the universe, you know?

Chelle: Not onto a specific person.

Laylla: Right. Be careful what you wish for. Now, we also reference quite often, there's a lot of broom lore in this movie, including, of course, everyone knows that when a broom falls down...

Chelle: Company's coming. My grandma used to say that.

Chelle: So that one's there. Plus, they also invite all the women of the town over to let their inner witch fly and tell them to bring brooms because they form a circle with the brooms, and then later they sweep out all the bad energy out the door with the brooms, all of which is true.

Laylla: I just kind of laugh at the, I don't know, gathering all of the, again, gathering all these neighborhood women that mock you and, but yet come to your back door. Like, that was my biggest complaint about the movie, and it's not the movie, it's just that's a realistic thing. That's, it brings to light an issue that annoys me, I guess is, is what I can say.

Chelle: Yeah, and, you know, that circle's supposed to show that once they were included, you know, once those townspeople were included on that inner circle, they tended to let their guard down and be a little more accepting. I think that's what that was supposed to show.

Laylla: I think the possession part of Jimmy was a little Hollywood. I'm not saying I disagree with possession, but not how they portrayed it.

Chelle: Yeah. But as far as like broom lore, what you can do for Samhain, I know a lot of people like to decorate brooms in fall.

Laylla: And Practical Magic is a good point to show you, you don't have to go get some $300, $400 broom. They're gorgeous, don't get me wrong. If you can get one, get one. But, you can also, equally as effective, use that dollar store plastic broom. And I'm going to out Laylla and let y'all know that Laylla actually has a magical broom that is plastic from the dollar store, and I actually call it, I call it her Practical Magic broom.

Chelle: It was given to me by the coven that I worked with in Rochester. I adore that broom. We used it in circle just like Practical Magic, and I use that broom in my magical space. I love it very much.

Laylla: Well, if that's what you got and that's all you can get your hands on, decorate that damn thing.

Chelle: Yeah, exactly. And, and do cleansing spells. Use your broom, whatever kind of broom, even if it's just your household broom, imbue it with your intention to clean for the witches' New Year, for Samhain, and sweep all that negative energy out your doors so that you can be ready for the, the New Year after Samhain.

Laylla: You know, in the movie, they were sweeping a bad man out the door.

Chelle: Don't we wish it was that easy? Yeah, right. But, you know, we all have a little excess dirt in our lives that needs to be swept out, and it's time to dust off your soul, and broom magic is, is a good way to, to get that accomplished.

Chelle: And Samhain is sometimes thought to be the witches' New Year. Some people think, and, and there's a little contention about this, but some people think that because the Celtic people separated the year into two halves, summer and winter, like literally, so this is Samhain, summer's end, literally what it means. And so summer ended, the winter began, and so that space right there was the New Year, like New Year's Day. So a lot of witches do celebrate it as a brand new fresh start, and what better way than to do some broom magic and to do some sweeping and cleansing?

Laylla: Absolutely.

Chelle: So, I, I think there was some really good parts of Practical Magic. Obviously, there's a lot that's not real witchcraft, but all in all, it was good. And I love when the aunts talk about, when Sally's running off the first time, and the aunts say that they'll take the girls to festivals, and, and Sally's like, "You have to cancel." And they're like, "I can't cancel. We're on the committee. We're presenting."

Laylla: You know, that part was like a flashback of you and me, okay?

Chelle: I see us every time they do that scene. I totally see you and me there.

Laylla: Another time where I see you and me, not that we're out there trying to kill cross lovers, where they're looking in the rearview mirror at each other and talking without words.

Chelle: Oh, yeah. Yeah, we've done that on more than one occasion to the...

Laylla: Not that we're trying to kill men here.

Chelle: But often to the, uh, frustration of our significant other companions.

Laylla: Correct.

Chelle: So, let's bounce to another one of my most favorite movies. Our next movie is a '90s icon, classic. Love this movie.

Laylla: The Craft.

Chelle: The Craft. The Craft came out in 1996 and starred my love, Fairuza Balk. I have the biggest crush, I'm going to say had, but I think I still have, the biggest crush on Fairuza Balk. Can't help it. What are you going to do?

Laylla: Now, this movie, a little bit darker than Practical Magic.

Chelle: It's definitely a scary story.

Laylla: But again, you know, I love The Craft. And the one poignant point of that movie, when I think of The Craft, that really sticks out in my mind is when they're on the beach. You know, where they're doing the ritual on the beach and the four...

Chelle: I was going to say the same thing.

Laylla: You know, they have like the snake in the jar and like the, the little jellyfish.

Chelle: The fish, yeah.

Laylla: Yeah. I could see me doing that on a beach somewhere.

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: Now, when it comes to walking on water, well, we're getting a little Hollywood here. But, up until the walking on water part, but like that circle on the beach, yeah.

Chelle: I loved that circle on the beach as well. Okay. So here, I've got some interesting facts for you then, Chelle. Did you know that circle on the beach, that initiation that they all did, that was written in specifically because of the on-set Wiccan advisor that they hired, Pat Devon?

Laylla: Oh my god, I have a point to ponder with her. Didn't she, didn't she curse the set?

Chelle: Did she? Not that I know of. I've read a bunch of stuff, and apparently it was all very good.

Laylla: One of the sets was cursed. Was it Practical Magic or was it The Craft?

Chelle: Well, hold on, let me look it up now.

Laylla: The consultant witch got pissed off and cursed the set. Shit, I just read it today.

Chelle: Practical Magic. Oh, the 1998 movie Practical Magic was cursed by a witch consultant who was offended that she wouldn't receive a share of the profits.

Laylla: You know how like movies will like hire consultants to help them like put like some legitimacy into it? They actually hired a witch as a consultant for the movie, and the bitch got pissed off. I think she wanted like 3% of the royalties or some, I don't know what it was. It was about money anyway. And they wouldn't, so she cursed it, cursed the damn thing.

Chelle: The movie made millions, so her curse didn't work, so...

Laylla: I had to look this up. So, apparently, the witch consultant was key on set. Sandra Bullock and Nicole Kidman asked her a lot of questions. She wanted three points and publish a Practical Magic cookbook. Oh, wow. So, quote, the director says, quote, "She left a curse in some sort of tongue on my voicemail that was quite chilling, actually, and threatened to sue Warner Brothers." They gave it to legal, apparently.

Chelle: So, yeah, she, um, she said some weird shit did actually happen.

Laylla: I guess one of the, like, producers, his dad ended up dying, even though he was older and had an illness, and like everybody freaked out that the witch made him die. And like all this weird stuff was happening, and they blamed it on her.

Chelle: And it didn't do well initially at the box office. You know, it has grown in popularity, but it did not do well originally at the box office, so. Seems like her curse at least worked a little bit.

Laylla: She must be kicking herself in the ass that they're making a part two all these years later. But, I laugh at that because you don't know with online, is that real or was that just something to give it a little more publicity?

Chelle: Yeah, I don't know. But in The Craft, I do know that Pat Devon, that advisor, was quite happy with their role in the film and did, did actually, I think, a lot of good for the film. One of the things is that beach scene that we were just talking about is an initiation scene where the four girls are like forming their coven, and she had that written in so that later when they talk about how one of the girls has betrayed the coven...

Laylla: They needed to establish something for her to betray.

Chelle: Correct. And so that was written by the consultant. The god Manon was made up, but they do call quarters. One of the things I thought was pretty interesting was they do, you know, "I call upon the watchtowers of the powers of the east." And that's a real thing.

Laylla: Yep. Now, because I have to have an annoyance with every movie, I do have one annoyance with The Craft, and it's, it's petty, I know. I don't like how they portray if you don't have the money for supplies, you just go steal them. Don't steal. That's not right. I don't care what religion you are, don't steal. That shit's not right.

Chelle: Especially not from fellow witches in the craft. Don't steal from them. I mean, come on.

Laylla: PSA, don't steal from a witch. You know, everybody talks about being cursed right now. Your ass will go down if you, don't steal from a witch. That's like playing with fire.

Chelle: I do like the witch shopkeeper, I think Lirio Santana is the character's name.

Laylla: Which we're going to have to, we're going to revisit her in a few minutes because she reminds me of a character that we're going to talk about in our next movie.

Laylla: She has a quote that I also think is very real, and she says, quote, "True magic is neither black nor white. It's both because nature is both, loving and cruel all at the same time. The only good or bad is in the heart of the witch. Life keeps a balance on its own." And I think that's pretty cool. Life keeps a balance on its own.

Chelle: I loved that character. That, that character brought a whole lot of realness, I thought, to, to that.

Laylla: Absolutely.

Chelle: And I love that shop. I wish it was a real shop. I'd go there and spend money.

Laylla: I would absolutely go there. So watchtowers, we've called watchtowers before in a circle.

Chelle: Yeah, that we do that when it's more formal.

Laylla: Absolutely. Those are definitely more considered high magic, or in some Wiccan circles, those are more formal circles. But that came a lot from the Enochian tradition, John Dee, the Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn. A lot of that's from like the Lesser Key of Solomon, like Chelle said, high magic. So that was real. And having the girls each represent a different quarter, a different element, that's real. Oh, the other one I loved, do you remember when they said they cast the circle and then they had each girl enter the circle and they would hold an athame to her chest and say, "It is better that you should rush upon this blade than enter the circle with fear in your heart. How do you enter?" And the response is,

Chelle: "With perfect love and perfect trust." Ask me why I know that. Ask.

Laylla: Why do you know that, Chelle?

Chelle: Because we've actually used that in our own rituals 8 billion times.

Laylla: Exactly, before and after the movie came out because that's also a real thing. Symbolic death, challenges, things like that, challenges to come into a circle, being asked to come in with perfect love and perfect trust, those are all real things. We were much more Wiccan-based back in the day, and those are all more formal Wiccan-type challenges. In a lot of magical circles, it's pretty common to have some type of challenge or even some type of threat upon your life if you break an oath before you come into the circle. So those are all real.

Chelle: I want to mention one more real thing that I liked in the movie.

Laylla: Yeah.

Chelle: The one girl did the binding spell against your favorite girl crush character.

Laylla: Faruza Balk.

Chelle: And she took, what was it, like a, her name on it or something. I would, if it was me, I'd take a picture, wrapped it up in, in a ribbon and thing, and said, you know, what did she say, something to the effect of,

Laylla: "I bind you, so-and-so, from harming yourself and others."

Chelle: Yeah, that's legit.

Laylla: Yeah, that's definitely.

Chelle: That is a, a good representation of a binding spell, in my opinion. So I thought that was a good one. You know, the glamour, I'm not saying that glamour magic isn't real, but,

Laylla: It doesn't work like that.

Chelle: That was some CGI bullshit, okay? It don't work like that.

Laylla: No. But what you can do for Samhain is be a little more formal, cast yourself a circle. I love casting an actual physical circle. Take some loose incense, take some sand, draw a line around you in chalk, but do a ritual where you actually physically make a circle around yourself and then face each quarter, each direction, and call formally to that element.

Chelle: Yeah, formally.

Laylla: You know, try that for your, for your Samhain ritual or for, you know, any spell work leading up to. Just be, add a little bit more formality to it and see how that feels for you. And also, conversely, for Samhain, it's a great time if you need to maybe bind something of yourself that you want to stop causing problems, or, you know, maybe that coworker needs a little binding.

Chelle: You know, kind of almost exactly what they do in the movie. I, I prefer taking a picture. I've done it a couple of ways. I've burned the picture.

Laylla: You just write their name if you don't have a picture.

Chelle: I've, I've written their name. When I do the name thing, though, I write their name nine times.

Laylla: Oh, okay.

Chelle: Yeah, it's a thing. I'm weird. I have actually put it in a jar of water and froze the picture. But I do agree with the movie on how they do it, wrapping it in a cord and stuff. But I, I'm big on burning things. If it were me, I'd wrap that picture up in a, in a little ribbon and say my little chanty-chant and then light that bitch on fire.

Laylla: Yeah, freezer spells are definitely a type of binding spell. Wrapping them up in something, also a great binding spell. So those are all real things from The Craft. So last movie that we are going to talk about is Hocus Pocus. We love Hocus Pocus.

Chelle: I am in like freaking Hocus Pocus town right now. Do you know that every time me and my sweet love go driving down this certain area in town, there's Ocean Ave. Ocean Ave is where the, what was it, Max's house, the one that was the beach house. And for some reason, I always start singing that song, "There's a place on Ocean Avenue." But I am, like, you know, I have the house where the Halloween ball was at. That's in town. I, I go to work every day in my mundane job, and I must see 86 sets of the Sanderson sisters. And,

Laylla: Yes, I'm so glad it has gotten better.

Chelle: And Spider-Man. Spider-Man's big this year downtown, by the way. I don't know why men are dressing up as Spider-Man to come to Salem, but it's happening right now.

Laylla: I love that. Yay, I'm so glad they're finally starting to dress up. I was getting a little worried that it was going to be so boring this year.

Chelle: The costumes are picking up. I'm seeing a lot of more, quote-unquote, realistic witch costume. I don't even want to call them costumes.

Laylla: What do you mean by realistic witch costumes? Is it like a short chick in jeans and a t-shirt that looks like me?

Chelle: A short girl in a t-shirt and a flowy skirt that looks like you.

Laylla: Oh, okay. Yeah, that sounds about right.

Chelle: Now, people are still tending to stick to the black, but, people are coming, and they're wearing the hats, but I'm, I'm all for a hat. But people are coming looking like everyday you and I, witches.

Laylla: Okay. All right.

Chelle: They're not doing the Spirit Halloween sexy witch costume.

Laylla: Well, that's okay. I'm, I'm cool with that.

Chelle: Which I've done that before, and I'm not criticizing. I have done that before.

Laylla: Sometimes, some days I'm a sexy witch. It just, you know, depends.

Chelle: But if you're looking for the Sanderson sisters, 86 different sets of them.

Laylla: Love it. I love it. Someday, I will have a really good, full authentic Winnie costume.

Chelle: With the teeth.

Laylla: I would be happy. Sure, even with the teeth.

Chelle: So in the spirit of talking about what is real and what is not in witchy-type movies, I got to, I got to break some news to you, Laylla.

Laylla: Yeah, I know what's coming.

Chelle: Not a damn thing, unless I am riding my freaking vacuum to work tomorrow, okay?

Laylla: Yeah, I came to the same conclusion. I mean, we could stretch it and talk about grimoires that aren't alive and candle colors that don't require virgins. But, yeah, for the most part, even their history is fake. Fun movie, I absolutely adore it, not going to knock it, but there's not a lot real there.

Chelle: It is the Frosty the Snowman of October.

Laylla: There you go. So what are we going to talk about instead?

Chelle: Okay, so you've twisted my arm, you've pulled my hair, and I sat down and I binged Agatha All Along.

Laylla: Yay! Yes, yes, finally! Thank all the gods.

Chelle: I didn't do WandaVision yet, but I am going to circle back and do WandaVision because you know I like having the whole story and not a part of a story. So I will, I will circle back to it.

Laylla: Okay, so before we get into the witchy shit, I'm going to ask you the same question I ask everyone who has not seen WandaVision first. Did the first episode confuse the hell out of you?

Chelle: It did, but as I watched episodes, it, in retrospect, became clearer. So, like, in the moment, I was like, "Well, this is weird." But then as things kind of unfolded, I was like, "Oh, I understand why back then this and that happened."

Laylla: So they explained it well enough that even without the backstory, you were still able to follow along.

Chelle: Yeah, yeah. And then about midway through the episodes, I did go and Google a synopsis of WandaVision, but I didn't need to to keep up with Agatha. I just chose to because, you know, I'm nosy.

Laylla: Very cool. All right. So I'm going to start out with the very first thing that I noticed that was witchy, and that is Agatha's charm, her Maiden, Mother, Crone charm.

Chelle: I want that thing. Oh, my god, I need one.

Laylla: So pretty, right? So all of the witches have their own magical charm. So as they go through each episode, you'll notice that their magical talismans stay with them in different forms. So sometimes Agatha's pendant is a pin, sometimes it's a necklace, sometimes it's a bracelet. But even though their costumes change to match the challenge, they always have their protection charms.

Chelle: Before I forget, I need to mention something about this movie that felt very real to me, or not movie, TV show, whatever you want to call it, miniseries, that felt real to me that was like an instant flashback to The Craft.

Laylla: Oh.

Chelle: The lady. So remember you said in The Craft, remember you said in The Craft you liked the lady in the store?

Laylla: Oh, oh, right, the, the apothecary lady, the apothecary witch. Yeah.

Chelle: Did the pagan tarot reader divination lady not freaking remind you of her? Like, the minute I saw that scene, the minute I saw that scene, it literally took me back to the scene in The Craft.

Laylla: Lilia. Lilia is the divination witch.

Chelle: Like, was that the same actress? Like, it was that close.

Laylla: Very similar, very similar.

Chelle: I even thought in my mind at the time, "Was that the same actress?" But like that whole session when her and the, the boy, the teen, go in there and get that first initial tarot reading when they try to get her into the coven, that, A, struck a chord from The Craft, and, B, kind of felt real, like a realistic scene.

Laylla: What struck me most about that scene, and actually made me start keeping notes, was Lilia. Her whole issue is people don't believe her. I don't think she even believes herself sometimes when she has these psychic flashes, when she has these visions. And throughout each episode of Agatha All Along, she has visions. Some of them relate to tarot cards. And the first one happened when Agatha and Teen came in and asked her to write down some names for the coven. And she said, "Three of Pentacles." And I was like, "Ah! That's like the collaboration card. That's like the working together card." I'm like, "That fits perfectly."

Chelle: And then channeled the names to the point where she didn't even realize she wrote down her own name.

Laylla: Exactly, exactly. And one of the names she wrote was a black heart, but that's a whole different theory for a whole different podcast episode.

Chelle: Now, one thing I didn't like about a portrayal in this that's also equal to a portrayal in The Craft is they do portray that you have to have a group of people and form a coven to be magical, and that I don't agree with. That's not the case. You can be a solitary witch and make some shit happen. You don't need a group of people to make shit happen.

Laylla: That's right. And, and in, in the Marvel world, there's a few witches that don't, and Agatha is one of them. Wanda's another.

Chelle: I know, but like, you know, in Practical Magic in the broom scene, they have to get all the neighborhood ladies to do the broom thing. Like, I get the whole having to have a group, but I also get,

Laylla: For certain things, yeah.

Chelle: It's not like make or break, in my opinion.

Laylla: Oh, yeah, no. So in Wanda, or in Agatha All Along, that part is definitely,

Chelle: Well, you have to have a green witch, and you have to have a divination witch, and, you know, you have to have all these different types of people to make a coven. No. No.

Laylla: No, no, you absolutely do not. I mean, to open the road, I mean, if you're going to open the road, then you definitely do. But for a coven, nah.

Chelle: Like that trip to Avalon we took. There you go.

Laylla: Well, we did have a whole coven for that one. So she does mention tarot cards a couple more times. She mentions the Three of Pentacles when they form the coven, and that does mean teamwork and collaboration. Then when she first meets Jen, the rootworker witch, the potions witch, she says, "High Priestess." And Jen is very much about divine knowledge, wisdom, spiritual enlightenment. I mean, she comes very much across as a High Priestess. And then later, when Teen is hurt and possibly dying, she says, "Three of Swords." And that is a sad experience, a,

Chelle: Yikes.

Laylla: a lost relationship, accidental death, a betrayal. So that fit. And then the last card she said was in the most recent episode, which is completely fucked up, but anyways, she said, "Knight of Wands," when Alice was blasting Agatha with her energy. And that usually means impulsiveness, you know, passion.

Chelle: Kudos, I, I would assume they had a consultant. Kudos to that person.

Laylla: I thought so, too. And as I was, you know, kind of looking these cards up to see if there were any hidden clues that maybe I had missed, I realized that the Biddy Tarot and the Labyrinthos meanings online very closely matched what I thought when I first saw them and what the episode I think was trying to portray. So I think somebody either was looking at Labyrinthos or Biddy Tarot to get these ideas.

Chelle: I liked that it wasn't as fluffy as I expected. You know, when I saw the opening credits and saw like flashes from The Craft and, you know, all the, you know, Bewitched and all that, I was like, "Oh, lord, what's Laylla getting me into now?" It had a holy win fluff, but I felt there was a little bit of realisticness to it. And, you know, okay, so maybe we didn't travel down the Witches' Road, but we did take a, a, a astral journey to Avalon in the past, and how different is that from what they were doing, in my opinion? So I, I kind of saw a lot of similarities to real-world experiences that are legit.

Laylla: And honestly, that is a ritual that I, I don't know if I would have done alone. It was better because we were in a group.

Chelle: Oh, hell no, I would have been scared to do that alone.

Laylla: Yeah, that one. So in that particular case, I was glad that we had a group there. So I, I can see where you might need some extra people for a bigger working.

Chelle: Okay, you're right.

Laylla: But no, I, I also, I love your point that you don't need a coven to be magical. You don't need a coven to be a witch.

Chelle: For everyday stuff. But if you're, if you're doing some sort of traveling between the realms like we were, you know, it's kind of like going to a bad side of town. Lock the doors and don't go alone, you know?

Laylla: Very good point, very, very good point. The other thing I noticed with Agatha All Along, I think it was like episode two or episode three, where Jen, the High Priestess, the potions witch, is called upon to create a cure for a poison that they've all taken. And again, same thing with the herbs, they mention the witchy, weird names of the herbs. Again, we hear eye of newt is one of the ingredients, which is mustard seed.

Chelle: Toe of frog.

Laylla: Let's see, this one, the ingredients for Jen's spell are a corpse decaying for 30 million years, frankincense, guts of a eusocial insect, eye of newt, a hair from everyone's head, and it needed to be stirred with the dominant hand counterclockwise.

Chelle: That's pretty intense shit, man.

Laylla: Right? But it breaks down pretty easily. The corpse decaying for 30 million years is zooplankton, which turns into petroleum jelly. So you can just use petroleum or petroleum jelly for that. Frankincense, easy enough. The gut of a eusocial insect is,

Chelle: What the hell is that?

Laylla: as Teen so eloquently put it, a gross way to say honey.

Chelle: I see it. I see it.

Laylla: Eye of newt again is mustard seed. And then the hair from everyone's head, that is an excellent thing to add to this spell.

Chelle: I've done that, yeah.

Laylla: That's what's called a taglock. By putting a piece of everyone's hair into this potion, you're tying that magic to the people, so it will work more powerfully for them. And that's something that you can do in your spell work, is add a taglock for you or for the person that you're casting the spell on or for. And that will make it more powerfully attached to them or more powerfully work for them.

Chelle: Yeah, and we've, we've actually done that before.

Laylla: Yep. So taglocks are pretty common part.

Chelle: I just, I like the fight scene.

Laylla: Which fight scene?

Chelle: When she first sees Rio, like episode one or two or something. If witches could fight like that, that would be badass. Badass. But like, I would say, as the years go on, the movies are getting better. But I do want to address real quick, there's this weird online thing where people are kind of pissed. It's like the internet is divided over Agatha All Along.

Laylla: Really? What are they saying?

Chelle: I have had, I, I go all over the internet. I see all kinds of weird shit. And there are people who are kind of butt-hurt because they think that there are people who are interested in witchcraft just because they watched it. I have an opinion on this, by the way.

Laylla: Oh, okay.

Chelle: You know, I was at a young age when Practical Magic and The Craft came out. And I had already been practicing witchcraft for several years at that point. But I'm not going to lie, I was enamored, and I kind of felt included in society knowing that there was these new blockbuster Hollywood movies about something that I was interested in. Who gives a shit if people are getting interested in witchcraft and paganism because of Agatha All Along? Who cares what road you take to get here?

Laylla: I agree.

Chelle: It doesn't matter how you get exposed. Interest is interest, and I just don't understand the people that are mad about it.

Laylla: I'm not sure either. Maybe they're afraid that,

Chelle: I think they're afraid it's an insincere interest.

Laylla: Correct. And I think that the people who are insincerely interested will fall by the wayside.

Chelle: They always do. They always drop off. They weed themselves out.

Laylla: But like you said, you were enamored. I was, too, when I first saw these, and it was really nice to see, even if it, you know, I, I knew it wasn't going to get it all right. I knew that it was going to be fictionalized, and that was okay.

Chelle: Well, there's movies about Jesus that aren't all right.

Laylla: Right? And that can still spark interest. And I, I do, I agree with you. I think these sparked a lot of interest for people. And I think the ones that weren't sincere about it would drop it eventually, and the ones that are would continue to study and find out what is real and what is true. So,

Chelle: Everybody needs their introduction, and if this is, if this is an introduction for people, who are we to say?

Laylla: That brings me to my wonderful way to tie Agatha All Along to Samhain, which is, you know, first of all, it's a wonderful time of year to watch this. I can't stand that it comes out one a week. But, you could do a simmer pot. I mean, they created that big cauldron in their kitchen using a sous vide to heat everything up, but basically they made a big old simmer pot in the sink. Chelle loves a good simmer pot.

Chelle: I do.

Laylla: So make yourself a nice Samhain simmer pot. You can use cloves and cinnamon, apples and oranges,

Chelle: Cranberry.

Laylla: throw that in there, throw in a little bay in there, some rosemary. And now you have a simmer pot that's also a cleansing and protective. So as that scent goes through your whole house, it's going to smell fabulous, and you are cleansing it for that which is New Year for Samhain.

Chelle: I need to add something to that, something that I have done in the past is write either a message to a loved one that's passed, or just write that loved one that's passed name on a bay leaf, and then put those bay leaves in that simmer pot as well.

Laylla: I love that. And similar to that, using a taglock theory, you can take a piece of paper or something, or you can make a a little a corn dolly, or make a yarn dolly. You know, the whole symbol of the wicker man, a lot of people would make that wicker man symbol, and then they would burn that in the fire, and people would put their things they wanted to let go of, or or to burn away from their life, or even things that they were hoping to get into that wicker man and then burn it. So you could create your own little wicker man, like I said, out of paper or yarn, take a taglock of your hair and put that in the wicker man, and then burn that yourself for your your little releasing ceremony for Samhain. But I do like the simmer pots, though, and and that kind of goes back a little bit to Agatha All Along.

Chelle: I love these movies. And and I love that Practical Magic is having a a Practical Magic 2 coming out, and I can't wait for that. And Laylla,

Laylla: Chelle,

Chelle: how do we get ourselves on the list of witch consultants for Hollywood movies?

Laylla: I don't know. It sounds like it's either hit or miss. You're either going to like curse the movie or or have a great time. It sounds like it's one or the other.

Chelle: I'm willing to fuck around and find out.

Laylla: You always are. You always are. Well, so curl up, get your simmer pot going, get your incense going, be ready for anything, I guess. On these colder Samhain nights, curl up with a good witchy movie and uh get ready for Halloween. Get ready for Samhain for that veil to be thinner.

Chelle: Curl up for a nice Halloween treat of a movie, make your midnight margaritas, and put that damn lime in the coconut. Let's do this, witches.

Laylla: Sounds good. All right, thank you so much for listening to this episode of Back on the Broomstick. We appreciate all the likes, the stars, the comments, the reviews. It really helps the show out, and it makes Chelle and I cackle like little witches.

Chelle: It really does.

Laylla: So please send your questions or comments to backonthebroomstick@gmail.com. Visit our YouTube, our Facebook, our Instagram, and let us know what you think. We hope you're having a wonderful season of the witch. We will see you soon with another episode.

Chelle: Happy October. Keep it witchy.
