Laylla: Hi, and welcome to Back on the Broomstick. I'm Laylla. On this special Samhain edition, we're having a throwback holiday where we play a Samhain episode from 2022.

Chelle: This is really a throwback Thursday, no shit.

Laylla: Oh, actually, yeah, it is.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: So, happy throwback Thursday for this Halloween, this Samhain. Chelle and I decided that we liked this episode so much from the Stoned Witches Hour Wheel of the Year series, we wanted to share it again with you guys.

Chelle: So, join us as we sit back and listen to Samhain 2022. And, you know, this is chock-full of good shit, I can't lie. Good, good, good, solid info. And that's really why we didn't want to re-record it, because it was just too good to try to duplicate.

Laylla: That's true. Can't top perfection. So, we want to wish everyone in the Southern Hemisphere a happy Beltane, and everyone in the Northern Hemisphere a happy Samhain.

Chelle: Happy May Day to all of our Southern Hemisphere folks. I hope you are all joyously dancing around a Maypole right now, as we are in the Northern Hemisphere getting ready for the dark side.

Laylla: Ooh, yeah. You make it sound so much cooler than dark way too early, cold way too often, and slushy.

Chelle: I don't know, maybe it was like too much Pink Floyd today. I don't know.

Laylla: All right, well, I hope you guys enjoy, and we will see you at the end of the episode.

Laylla: Welcome to Back on the Broomstick, a modern witches' spoken word grimoire, where two witchy friends from way back are reconnecting to their pagan roots after a long period of mundanity.

Chelle: Where we're walking the path of the wise and trying out all the latest spells, rituals, and magical theory in today's witchcraft and pagan practices.

Laylla: So, grab your wand and your incense, your cauldron and your crystals, and join us as we get back on the broomstick.

Laylla: Samhain is the third and final harvest festival and marks our further descent into the dark half of the year. The veil between this world and the afterlife is at its thinnest point, and spirits, both good and bad, walk among us in disguise. I'm your host, Laylla, and tonight we celebrate the witches' New Year. And with me--

Chelle: Don't forget me, I'm Chelle.

Laylla: Never, never, never forget you, Chelle. How are you on this Samhain evening?

Chelle: You know, on the East Coast, it is getting to be that Samhain-type weather. The leaves are gorgeous, the air is crisp, the fog is out, and oh my god, 'tis the season.

Laylla: I have to say, I loved it while I was there. All the rain, the cold days, the chilly evenings, the leaves. Walking on the sidewalk through freshly fallen leaves on a crisp autumn day on the East Coast, you just can't beat it. This time of year, it's the best.

Chelle: I mean, I don't hate summer, but this is a good time of year. And, and, and you know what's so weird? It's been very foggy here lately, like very foggy, eerie, like thick, dense, night fog. And it really kind of lends to the whole thinning of the veil concept of Samhain. And it's just, you go outside at night here and it's just like, do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do. Love it, love it.

Laylla: Even the weather is conspiring to make everything all spooky and creepy this time of year.

Chelle: Absolutely. It's, it's, it's perfect. It's perfect. I love this time of year. I love this time of year.

Laylla: Me too. It's absolutely lovely and combines so many of my favorite things, costumes and candy and skeletons and--

Chelle: Apple cider.

Laylla: Apple, who doesn't love apple cider and pumpkin donuts?

Chelle: This, the one thing about a Samhain tradition, I'm going to break right into a Samhain tradition, bobbing for apples. Have you ever bobbed for apples? Do you know anybody who's bobbed for apples?

Laylla: I have bobbed for apples when I was really, really little.

Chelle: Like, are you just going in like horse mouth, like, ah, horse mouth into this thing? Like, I've never done this, and it's like a fall tradition that I just, I don't understand.

Laylla: Horse mouth, and I recommend hold your breath, push an apple to the side or to the bottom. That's the trick. Don't try to catch one like in the middle of the water. Push it up against the bottom of the side, then you can get a good grip.

Chelle: The bottom? Are you going full head into this or what?

Laylla: Hey, sometimes you got to go for it to get that apple. I mean, you're not always going to have a good side right there for you. You might have to dunk your whole face in that, that thing of water. I mean, come on.

Chelle: But to kind of circle back to why we're here tonight, it's another tick, you know how I like to call them ticks, it's another tick in the wheel of the year. This, this is like the witches' New Year. This is like the greatest.

Laylla: A lot of people do call it the witches' New Year, and the reason for that is because it was considered the Celtic New Year. So back in the day, this was the kind of that liminal space between summer and, and winter. You know, it's the third harvest and, and everything kind of was on hold until--

Chelle: And you're ush- and basically, it's, it's like that, that final ushering in of the dark half of the year, because, and obviously, calendar-wise, we look at things differently in, in the modern times, but I look at Samhain as like the end of the outside world until spring.

Laylla: Yeah, that's one of the things you have to kind of give up on the East Coast is, is you literally, as well as figuratively--

Chelle: Hermit in.

Laylla: Yeah, you, you hermit in after Samhain.

Chelle: Yep.

Laylla: You go within. It's, like you said, it's ushering in that last half of the dark half of the year. This is when we really start to feel that it's the dark half of the year.

Chelle: Right, right. Because everything, I don't know if it's, it's modern times have kind of conditioned us, but it almost seems like nowadays, and we've talked about this in the past, summer is kind of like Beltane to Samhain. That's how we gauge our outside activities. Beltane is, Beltane is the beginning. You can go outside after that because it's warm enough to, and after Samhain, it's too damn cold.

Laylla: That's so true. And to our listeners in the southern half of the world, you know, hello to South Africa and New Zealand, you guys are celebrating Beltane right now.

Chelle: And how fabulous is that for them? They're getting into the warmer half of the year. So we're jealous, folks.

Laylla: Well, you know, I kind of really like Samhain. There's a lot about Samhain that I enjoy. I mean, would Beltane be as sweet if there wasn't a Samhain?

Chelle: Exactly, kind of that yin and yang.

Laylla: Exactly. And, and there's a lot to be said for, I'm an introvert, I kind of like the cooler days and cooler nights, especially in California. You don't get those that often. And so it, it makes it easier to get outside and do things, but it also makes it easier to get cozy indoors and do some crocheting or do some crafts or do things around the house. Work on yourself a little bit, you know? It, it's a nice time of year to kind of balance that outward-facing Beltane summer.

Chelle: But also on a spiritual level, you know, back in, in the, if, if you follow the ancient Celtic spiritual traditions, they really did believe that this was kind of the, the barrier between our world and the spirit world. There's an easy transition now. Some people say the, the veil is thin, other people say that that door has opened, however you want to convey the thought. The, the barrier between that physical world and that spiritual world breaks down to almost nothing at that point. That's where you kind of get into some of the traditions of, um, honoring your ancestors. If you're looking to speak to folks, if you want to talk to your grandma, now is the time.

Laylla: Yes.

Chelle: Because this is where I personally feel that you can make those connections easier.

Laylla: I agree. This is definitely the time of year when the Celts believed that the supernatural world, the world of death, was very close. It, it just kind of ran alongside this one. And as the harvest wore on, as we're harvesting that grain and, and things are dying, we're getting closer to that veil. So the separation between this world and the world of the dead gets thinner and thinner until it's almost nonexistent on Samhain. And this is, like you said, it's an excellent time for ancestor worship. One of the things that you can do to honor your ancestors is to have a dumb supper or to set a place at the table for them so that they can join you for your feast on Samhain.

Chelle: I noticed, um, one thing they have here in, in, in Salem, and I never heard of it before, they call it a mute dinner, a mute supper.

Laylla: It's the same, that's what a dumb supper means, a silent supper.

Chelle: Yeah, yeah. And I was like, wow, I never heard of it referred to as that. You know, I know, I've heard of the dumb supper, but not a mute supper.

Laylla: Yep, I guess being struck dumb was an old saying, like being struck speechless.

Chelle: Well, and I think it also goes back to the times where they used to refer to folks with certain disabilities as deaf, dumb, and blind.

Laylla: Yes, that's right, exactly.

Chelle: Dumb really was an old-fashioned way of saying mute.

Laylla: Exactly. And you take that place setting, and you set a place at the table for the people who have passed on, who can't sit down to dinner with you anymore. And you leave it there for them, at least for one meal. And it, it's a beautiful way to invite them to participate in your life again, to invite them, you know, to be at your dinner table one more time.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: Building an altar is another thing that a lot of pagans and Wiccans will do this time of year, to put on pictures or, or mementos from your ancestors.

Chelle: Little trinkets or something. What, one thing I do, um, my grandfather was a fireman, and I have one of his fire badges, and I put that on my altar on Samhain, my grandpa's fire badge. My grandmother, Halloween was like her freaking Mecca. Um, she loved Halloween even more than Christmas. You know, you met her.

Laylla: Oh, yes, I remember.

Chelle: She had this little wooden pin. You know how back in like the '70s, they, everybody had a pin, everybody wore pins.

Laylla: Yeah, brooches.

Chelle: Yeah, she has this little wooden pin, and it's a painted cauldron.

Laylla: Oh, wow, nice.

Chelle: And I wear, I wear that every Samhain, even if I just have to go to work.

Laylla: Honor your ancestor.

Chelle: Um, so I'll put my grandpa's badge on the altar, but I'll wear my grandma's pin, the cauldron pin, because, you know, that was her jam. That was her jam. That was her holiday. And even if it wasn't to remember ancestors, I would have done that anyway because that was her favorite holiday.

Laylla: I love that. I absolutely love that. When I was a kid, on my grandmother's mantel, I always remember seeing this little Buddha guy.

Chelle: Oh, that's so cute.

Laylla: This little statue. Now, my grandparents were Christian, although my grandmother did introduce me to tarot cards when I was little. She very much liked spirituality. She was into divination and tarot. She's the one with the Ouija board. So this little guy is, is something I remember on her mantel, and after she and my grandfather passed away, we were all told we could take something of theirs, and this is what I asked to have. So this little Buddha, this little Buddha statue is my little good luck guy.

Chelle: Oh, that's cute.

Laylla: Yeah, I've had him since I was 19, and he goes on my altar, um, as my remembrance of my grandparents, as one of my ancestor items that goes on my altar.

Chelle: Aside from, from the ancestor altars and, and, and offerings, uh, to our passed-on loved ones and such, bread. I don't know why bread, but because it's like the final harvest, I don't know, I always want to eat, I always want bread product at Samhain.

Laylla: Yes, because we're cutting down the grains. It's that, it's that ancient tradition of the harvest and cutting and threshing of the grains. And so baking of bread is an actual symbolic act because Samhain is life and death. It, it's everything, it's all of that. And, and when you're harvesting the bread, or when you're harvesting the grain, you're killing it. You're, you're cutting it down. That's the whole death of the grain man, you know? And you cut down that grain and everything goes quiet and fallow for the winter. But then you bake bread out of it, and now you've created something new. You have new life and you have bread. So it's a wonderful way to remember that. I know in Mexico, for the Day of the Dead celebration, which is right around the same time, on the first, one of the things they do is bake cookies and sweet things to remind you of the sweetness of life.

Chelle: I just wanted to say one thing that the Celts also did was they would leave out baked goods or cookies or things of that nature out for the fairies. So they would leave out stuff for the fairies and the sidhe because that was kind of like their last offerings of the year.

Laylla: Exactly.

Chelle: And they were kind of trying to buy them off for the winter months. You know what I mean?

Laylla: Right, because exactly, the, the, the veil is thinnest, and it's not just your ancestors that are coming back. It's bad people, it's tricksters, it's the sidhe, it's the--

Chelle: It's fey, it's--

Laylla: It's fey, it's the Tuatha Dé Danann, it's, it's, you know, you might be caught up in the Wild Hunt on this night. And so people would dress up and wear masks to kind of fool the bad spirits that would come around. They'd, they'd carve turnips and other gourds, later pumpkins, and light them to scare away bad spirits, and they'd leave offerings for the good ones and to appease the bad ones, to maybe kind of leave them alone.

Chelle: And that kind of is what led to the modern-day jack-o'-lanterns, um, and, and, and costumes.

Laylla: Samhain and the Day of the Dead, Día de los Muertos, are very, very similar in that it's ancestor worship and honoring those that have gone before, and using lights and offerings. And in Día de los Muertos, it's called an ofrenda, the altar that you put up for your ancestors. We just call it an altar, but we use a lot of the same things.

Chelle: Well, it's, it's more about, it's more about celebrating the dead. It's not about grieving the dead, and I think that's probably a very important distinction to make to folks. Samhain is, the thought behind it is definitely not grieving-based. It's more celebratory-based.

Laylla: And it's not to say you might not be sad inviting, you know, your deceased loved one over for dinner, but essentially you're inviting them back into your home to be part of your family again, while warding off the bad ones or the sidhe.

Chelle: Right. You know, that trickster. Loki's out there, people. Loki will come to you on Samhain.

Laylla: Different pantheon, but--

Chelle: You don't want that kind of mojo.

Laylla: Exactly. And while Halloween is kind of derived from Samhain, it, it's not the same. You know, there's the whole giving of offerings and the possible tricksters and the wearing of masks, uh, and the carving of pumpkins. But a lot of those traditions came to the United States in the, in the 1840s when the, the Irish came here after the famine, and they brought with with them a lot of, lot of their Samhain traditions, including--

Chelle: Masks.

Laylla: --asking for food, masks, asking for food from neighbors for the feast, you know, and trickster things, you know, causing trouble. And it got to be so out of hand that I believe in the early 1900s, some major cities started having sanctioned celebrations on All Hallows' Eve or Halloween to kind of tone down some of the mischief night and Samhain trickster things that were happening.

Chelle: But back when, when some of those Celtic traditions, um, were brought over here by the Irish and, and whatnot, you know, we've talked about this on other sabbat episodes about the correlating Christian holidays. People forget, because in, in, for pagan folk, this is absolutely a high holiday. It's like our Christmas, you know?

Laylla: Yes, it's one of the four major sabbats of the year.

Chelle: Right. And people forget that there is a Christian correlated holiday. Um, they've made it a lesser holiday, but November 1st is All Saints' Day, and that was kind of their way of trying to, you know, we've talked in the past about how they tried to sway the pagans away by creating their holidays around the same times. So kind of to, to combat Samhain, they have All Saints' Day.

Laylla: Yep, and again, they couldn't stop people from celebrating the old ways, and so they kind of incorporated it into their ways. I mean, you'll legit see them do the, the dumb supper and have the bread and all the same things. That's kind of the Christian holiday that's around this time. We've also mentioned the, um, Día de los Muertos, the Mexican holiday, the Day of the Dead. And I, I feel a lot of kinship with that because it is so similar to Samhain. And I do love bones. My idea of bones being, we all have a skeleton, you know, bones are the same underneath us all, and, and they last for a very long time, they fascinate me. We're still finding bones of people that are thousands of years old. I mean, come on, that's so cool.

Chelle: I'm one, I'm one of those parents, you know, my kids are in their 20s and I still have every one of their teeth. Every tooth from when they were, every baby tooth from both those kids, I have, still to this day.

Laylla: I did until I ritually let them all go. So.

Chelle: The thing is, is that somewhere in my head, I'm like, I don't want somebody getting their hands on my kids' bones, because god knows what they're going to do with them.

Laylla: Right, sure, sure. Bones are important. They contain our DNA, they contain so much. And so La Catrina and the, they have a lot of the sugar skulls and things like that in Día de los Muertos. Right around now is also Diwali. I believe Diwali just ended. That's a festival of lights. It's not exactly about death, but it is about life and rebirth and growth and that kind of thing, and that happens often this time of year.

Chelle: I believe Diwali started on, uh, Sunday, October 23rd, if I'm not mistaken.

Laylla: Yeah, and I think it goes for five days.

Chelle: Right, right.

Laylla: So, and yeah, and that's, you know, and that's, again, not the same, but it is a holiday that's going on now, and it does have to do with, it's the festival of lights, it's the, the triumph of good over evil, you know, that kind of thing.

Chelle: I do think the, the important thing to, to always remember, no matter what you believe, is we all have coinciding holidays.

Laylla: It's interesting to me that this time of year is that harvest time of year, you know, when people really, we start to figuratively go inward. Samhain is a good time to sacrifice what didn't work for you.

Chelle: Reflect. Reflect is a good word I like to use with Samhain. It's a good time to reflect on the last year, as well as how do I want the next year to go.

Laylla: Yeah, a, a great ritual I like to do on Samhain, um, is to literally do a ritual of letting go. You know, not just ancestor work, but you can also take something about yourself or relationship that you didn't like, or, or something that happened during the year that, that wasn't, you know, good for you. You can write that down on a piece of paper, and if you're lucky enough to be in a community that has a bonfire, you can throw that into the bonfire and release that, you know, during this time is a great time to let go of that that doesn't serve you. You know, sacrifice it.

Chelle: You know how I'm weird and I'm different than everybody else. You know what I've done for a long time on Samhain, and it is so against what everybody else does?

Laylla: What's that?

Chelle: I actually make wishes.

Laylla: Ooh. And you want to know why?

Chelle: Why?

Laylla: Because I feel like, uh, I mean, you know that I, I've always had kind of that, that connection, especially with my grandfather.

Laylla: Yes.

Chelle: I remember, remember my garage apartment when my grandfather would show up?

Laylla: That ghost, his ghost was there all the time. Shit would move, blankets that you were near would suddenly get an indentation in it like someone sat down. It was freaky.

Chelle: But, you know, I kind of always looked at it as a time where I kind of focused more specifically, um, on my grandparents. I always kind of looked at it as a time where I could specifically ask him for wishes.

Laylla: Oh, because he's right there.

Chelle: Not like a wish upon a star kind of a wish, but hey, Grandpa, could you just help me out here? Like those kind of, like a specific, you know what I'm saying?

Laylla: Yes.

Chelle: I've taken that approach because I feel like that's like the best time, you know what I mean?

Laylla: Mhm. I love that. I would talk to, a lot of times I would talk to my grandmother, my mother's mother, that that passed away before I was born, but I've often been told I am her twin. I'm her spitting image and I act like her, I talk like her, very much a lot like her, and I I feel very connected to her in a lot of ways. She was very cool lady from everything I understand, and and so I can I can feel her very strongly on Samhain, and I do enjoy being able to talk to her a little more closely, and and that's something, taking some time to meditate, to set up your altar with pictures, with notes to people that you love, have a little fire or candle if you can't have a fire, and and write a letter, write a physical note to someone that has passed on, and and burn it. Let it go. It's a great way to communicate with spirits. It's also an excellent time to, to do divination, or to to get a tarot reading, to get a an astrology reading from someone.

Chelle: It's also a good time to take that one last walk out in nature before you have to wait six months to do it again.

Laylla: Oh my gosh, yes. If you are in on the East Coast, or you're in a climate where you're going to get trapped inside because the weather is going to be shit, then definitely take that time. You know, it's really nice in California, Southern California, the weather is just balmy and perfect this time of year. You know, it does start to get a little bit colder. You can't do exactly all the things you want to do outside.

Laylla: Future Laylla here. I was so smug when I recorded this. I lived in Southern California at the time, and the weather was gorgeous all year round. Now I live in the mountains of Pennsylvania, and no, the irony is not lost on me. Future Laylla out.

Laylla: So yeah, enjoy the weather. Get out while you can, and and try to soak it all in.

Chelle: You know, one last cool tradition, I don't know if you remember this, but one Samhain ritual we did when we were in the pagan community back in upstate New York together, do you remember the time we sat around and part of the ritual was telling ghost stories? I thought that was cool as shit. What better time to tell ghost stories?

Laylla: It's an amazing time to tell ghost stories. I mean, how fun is that?

Chelle: I don't know. I feel like I do more reading this time of year. I do more investigating this time of year. Maybe it's just because I don't leave the house this time of year.

Laylla: It kind of gets back to, this is the time of year to reflect. This is the time of year to go inward. Ask your relatives about stories from their past. Ask about stories of people that aren't there anymore. If you know someone who is gone on, you know, you have, know someone who was close to them, ask for a story about them. Ask for a memory of their life.

Chelle: Another thing I did, because you know we are in the modern world now, and you and I are both parents to some lovely, lovely children, we still have to buy into the hype of pop culture Halloween.

Laylla: I kind of love pop culture Halloween.

Chelle: I do love, I love, I love Halloween. I love Samhain, I love Halloween, love it all. I actually, you know, I'd take the kids out trick-or-treating. I would make them leave a piece of candy. I don't know if you remember in my old house, I had that front porch that I never used a lot.

Laylla: Mhm.

Chelle: Each kid would leave a piece of candy out on that front porch.

Laylla: Oh, leaving offerings for the fey is definitely an excellent idea.

Chelle: Now, they'd of course leave a piece of candy that they didn't want, but that wasn't the point.

Laylla: Yeah, leaving an offering for the fey. If you are having a dumb supper and you serve food onto that plate, you can a lot of times take that plate outside and leave it for the fey and for the creatures outside if you're able to, but I love your idea of leaving a piece of candy out.

Chelle: But be forewarned. Our, our, our listeners don't know this, but you do. I used to have my beautiful kitty cat Salem. Remember Salem?

Laylla: I do remember Salem.

Chelle: So one year, one of my children decided to leave out a Jolly Rancher because it was a flavor they didn't like.

Laylla: Mhm.

Chelle: Well, apparently, I used to let this cat, this was an indoor-outdoor cat, and we had let him out, and he must have ripped the package or whatever, and when he had come in, when he had come into the house a day or two later, guess what was stuck in his damn fur that I had to cut out?

Laylla: Oh no.

Chelle: The Jolly Rancher offering.

Laylla: He had the thickest, the blackest, the most floofy fur.

Chelle: With a watermelon Jolly Rancher stuck in him.

Laylla: That must have been terrible.

Chelle: Well, then I thought it was bad mojo because I'm like, oh my god, the cat takes the offering. You know, if a neighbor kid took it, whatever. But I'm like, the cat, stay away, man. You knew, you knew this cat. He knew better.

Laylla: He did. He should have known better.

Chelle: He was just messing with us. It was just one of those simple, I mean, every kid's willing to give up one piece of candy.

Laylla: Mhm. I, I will also admit this is a time of year I love to throw on my black cloak and go haunting the local graveyards just to see what I can see. Pick up an acorn or a cute branch that's now a wand or something like that. And, I love it. Look for stones or hollows, what do they, the wish stones, the ones with the holes in them.

Chelle: Hag stones.

Laylla: Hag stones. And of course, creepy me, when I was a teenager, I found the bones of a bird, and I was so thrilled, and I had those on my altar for ever.

Chelle: Oh my god, that, you would do that. I'd be like, I wouldn't even touch that shit, and you'd be like, yeah, let me take that home.

Laylla: I did, too.

Chelle: There's where our witchy differences lie. You are all bones and stuff, and I'm like, man, has that shit been sanitized? But people think you need to spend a lot of money. You know, I, I had someone, I was talking to earlier this week in my day job, and we were talking about like altar stuff. I happen to work with someone who's like, oh, there's another witch at work, let's talk. And you know I don't mind.

Laylla: No. When have you ever minded?

Chelle: And you know, she's like, well, I was at this store and this store, and some of that stuff's expensive. I'm like, you know what? Go outside, get yourself a red leaf that just blew off a tree. Go get a twig that broke off of this. Take five of those twigs and make a pentacle out of them, and take some shoe string and tie them together. Boom, there you go. People think that it's all about what you spend on your altar.

Laylla: Nope, it's not.

Chelle: Something that you made is always going to be better than something that you bought. I mean, not to say that things that you buy aren't awesome. I love pretty things.

Laylla: Oh, I love pretty things. Give me shiny things all day long.

Chelle: But pretty things are pretty, not necessary.

Laylla: Right, and not necessarily powerful. Samhain is also a time when I like to actually do ritual. It, it, the veil's too thin for me to just want to sit there and kind of visualize.

Chelle: It's almost like an obligation.

Laylla: Yeah. You know, and, and to wear your black, your protective color, and to go outside, make a circle of leaves, make a, you know, kind of break out a a circle in your fall leaves if you're lucky enough, and have that barrier, or use bird seed and walk a circle. You know, call each corner. Use your air, your fire, your water, and your earth, and walk the circle to protect it and to bind your circle, make a safe space to do your ritual, to do your memorial to your ancestors, or to, to honor that third harvest, to, to sacrifice something from your past and to move forward. You know, doing ritual on that night is just, it feels different. It hits different.

Chelle: I think one thing that I've also found very important about this time specifically, not only has the earth sacrificed in the form of you've taken down your crops, you've chopped them down, you've cut them down, you've dug them out of the ground, whatever hell you're doing with your crops, just as the earth has to make that sacrifice, what's your sacrifice? You're going to go into the new year, you got to give something up. That's the deal.

Laylla: That's right.

Chelle: Whether it's a habit, whether it's, I don't know what, you got to give something up. Almost like a New Year's resolution.

Laylla: Exactly, exactly. It's an excellent time to do that. And I have to say that there was a Samhain in particular, right before I met my husband, that I was finally ready to let go of bad habits of the past, old relationships of the past, things that hadn't worked for me. You know, I was ready to just let go of all of it, start new, and just really be happy with myself, right? Not look for relationships or anything.

Chelle: Oh, I remember that Samhain, and I also remember the following Beltane.

Laylla: So that Samhain, after the community ritual, while the bonfire was still up, I did a small ritual. I had a friend do a heartbeat drum and everything, and I threw some things into the bonfire to kind of sacrifice that past and let go and start new. And that Beltane, my bestie was convinced to bring the love of my life to Beltane.

Chelle: You're welcome.

Laylla: Thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you. So, but I think it really started that Samhain when I was ready to make those sacrifices, when I was ready to let go of things that didn't serve me, finally ready to grow up and to shed those things. And, and I'm not going to say that it was easy because it wasn't.

Chelle: It was hard, and it was difficult.

Laylla: It was a very heart-wrenching ceremony, but.

Chelle: And look what you got out of it six months later.

Laylla: Exactly, exactly. Just because something's hard to let go of doesn't mean that you shouldn't, you know? And, and there was, I had a lot of baggage from a lot of shit in my past, and I was more than, more than willing to kind of throw that in the fire and let the new year start fresh. And half a wheel of the year later, I reaped the rewards. So, it's worth it.

Chelle: And look, folks, here we are 20-some years later, and they're still happily in love. That's so true. But, but, but, that change in, in you all started with giving something up. What's, what's the sacrifice?

Laylla: That's exactly right. Yep, that's right.

Chelle: I don't believe in resolutions. Resolutions are kind of weird, but sacrifices, I guess you could say it the same, I guess you could say it's different, but I guess it sounds better if you call it a sacrifice and not a resolution.

Laylla: Well, if you don't sacrifice, if you make a resolution, you're just kind of making a promise to yourself.

Chelle: You're lying to yourself.

Laylla: Oh, we know how you feel. But if you sacrifice something and let go of things that aren't serving you, that's a little bit different. You're not really making a promise so much as cleaning house, as letting things in your life go that need to be let go. And sometimes you need to do that.

Chelle: Just like the earth that lets things die, you need to just let things die.

Laylla: Exactly, just like, what was her name? Persephone's mother, um, goddess of hearth and home, uh, not Hecate.

Chelle: Demeter.

Laylla: Demeter, there you go. So Persephone's mother, Demeter, you know, sacrificed her daughter. Her daughter went to the underworld, and she had to let her go, and, and so now everything is kind of dying, and because she's sad about her daughter being gone. You know, so you've got Persephone and Hades as gods this time of year.

Chelle: Which we've actually, um, we used to do some passion play based rituals, and we actually kind of did that whole Persephone, Demeter, Hades transitioning to the underworld, dark half of the year concept for a ritual, and I loved it. I miss it. Let's do it again.

Laylla: We should. I miss community. I do have to say I very much miss that community, and I, I haven't really found anything to replace that. Let's see, another, a goddess that you're familiar with, Hecate, she's a, a good triple goddess for this time of year to call upon.

Chelle: Definitely the going within and seeing what you hide from yourself. And those are the things that you can kind of really delve into at this time of year.

Laylla: Oh, absolutely. Absolutely. There's so much about looking at the dark half of yourself, you know, being comfortable with who you are when you're alone, and, and kind of going through all of that.

Chelle: The yang is easy. The yin, not so much. Here we are, yeah.

Laylla: Not so much, that's right. The fire obviously was a, is a symbol of life, and back in the day, the ancient Celts, from what I understand, people would put out the fires throughout the whole village. Everybody's fire would go out, all the hearth fires. And they would light one fire, bonfire or bone fire, because it would often be lit with bones, um, but they would light this main bonfire, and then everyone would come to that as part of the celebration, and they would take fire from that central bonfire back to their home and re-light their hearth fire with it. And it's just kind of a, a reminder that this, that fire is life and that everyone is connected.

Chelle: And we would stay up late at rituals, a little late. One thing I always remember is, uh, as that fire was dying at the end of the night, and you know upstate New York, end of October, little chill.

Laylla: A little bit.

Chelle: As that fire went down, it would sink in because we'd start to freeze.

Laylla: Yeah, from the rituals before where it was warm and comfortable all night long, and we could drum and dance.

Chelle: At Samhain, you walk away from that fire, your ass is cold. So it kind of gives you that everything is shutting down, everything is, is kind of retreating, just like the fire is dying down, the light is dying down. As that fire goes dark, we go dark as well.

Laylla: That's right. That's right. And, and so we kind of have to hold on to that fire and the memory of that fire, and we have to use this time of going within and darkness to find new talents, to, to find new things to start.

Chelle: Samhain is also a good time for storage. By storage, I specifically mean this is where a lot of cultures and societies would get the final harvest and, and their final crops in a state of storage. Back at Mabon, we talked about canning, um, and, and doing those types of things. The stuff that they've been able to harvest since Mabon through Samhain, again, they're either going to be packed away to sustain through winter, canned to sustain through winter, whatever the case may be based on the crop. So this is also kind of the final gathering time of food and, and, and supplies hunkering down for winter.

Laylla: If you're lucky enough to be able to dry your own herbs or store your own crop, bravo, more power to you. If you can't, maybe you want to buy some fresh herbs at the store and dry them, or maybe you just wanted to try your hand at a new craft, you know, maybe you don't actually necessarily want to make bread or want to to can something, but now's a good time to learn something new to kind of, like you said, read more books.

Chelle: Expand yourself, expand your, expand your knowledge, expand your thought process. I mean, the light really starts to come back as we'll talk about again in Imbolc. Come out of the light better. However, whatever is better for you, come out better.

Laylla: So basically, we've ascertained that, um, from Samhain until roughly Beltane, it pretty much sucks on the East Coast. So you guys all need to learn how to knit. And on the West Coast, we're going to be surfing and hiking and biking and having a grand old time.

Chelle: You know, you and I talked about this previously, but I actually, I, I have a plan for my dark half of the year.

Laylla: Oh, what is your plan for the dark half?

Chelle: As most of our listeners have gathered over time, um, especially if you follow us on Instagram, I am what they call a tarot deck whore. I have an addiction problem with tarot decks. Love them, love them, love them, love them. But I am going to spend my dark parts of this year learning a new divination technique.

Laylla: Oh, do tell. What are you going to learn?

Chelle: I love tea. I've always loved tea. I don't like coffee. People, do not judge me. Do not send us hate mail about me hating coffee. It's a thing. And so I've always drank tea my whole life. I love tea. You know, it never dawned on me to do tea leaf readings until recently. So, I'm, yeah.

Laylla: What?

Chelle: I don't know. I guess I was so obsessed with tarot.

Laylla: I'm surprised. That's true. You, you've been literally obsessed with tarot for as long as I've known you.

Chelle: Right? So, you know, 160 decks later.

Laylla: Future Laylla here. As of October 2024, that number is now 215. A little bit of an addiction? Hmm. Future Laylla out.

Laylla: I think that number has gotten bigger from the last time you said it on here, Chelle. Do you need to have an intervention?

Chelle: Yeah, we kind of do. I'm going to delve into, uh, learning how to do some tea leaf readings.

Laylla: That sounds fantastic. You know, I have to say, I, I've gotten a new tarot deck recently, but like, I've gotten one, and in that same time, I think you've gotten 12.

Chelle: I am on a first-name basis with my Amazon guy as well as the local tarot shops in town. I'll admit it. It's a problem, folks. But if you ever want to look at a deck, let me know because I probably have it and can send you pictures.

Laylla: It's an excellent time of year for divination, whatever your flavor of divination is. And I have to say, I, too, am going to be doing something interesting that involves divination.

Chelle: What, what, what?

Laylla: Well, do you remember how we kind of made Ouija boards when we were together in Salem?

Chelle: That was the best Ouija board I've ever used in my life, by the way. Folks, there's a picture of it on Instagram. That shit is top-notch.

Laylla: I have decided that I am going to use one of two methods to permanently preserve our beautiful cardboard Ouija boards. I'm either going to cast it in resin, epoxy resin, or I'm going to decoupage it onto a nice piece of wood. So if anyone has an opinion, should I use epoxy resin and encase it in that and make it all cool, or should I decoupage it onto like a really nice piece of wood?

Chelle: Well, maybe one of our listeners has tried both of those things and would be able to actually tell us if one of them is a good or a bad idea.

Laylla: There you go. So I'm going to spend some time learning how to do that and, uh, make you and I our beautiful homemade Ouija boards to make them safe and permanent.

Chelle: Yay.

Laylla: And by the time your birthday comes, I'll have a full grasp on tea leaf reading, and I'll do a tea leaf reading for you.

Chelle: I love that. I love that. I'll do a tarot reading for you.

Laylla: You know I always will take a reading from you. What are you talking about?

Chelle: So, yeah, Samhain, I love it. This is just a beautiful time of year, and I hope everyone's having fun trick-or-treating, and, you know, leave something out for your ancestors.

Laylla: And if there's any listeners who decided to come to Salem for Halloween, God bless you, first of all. Hope you found some parking. May all the gods keep you safe.

Chelle: Right. May the gods keep your car safe.

Laylla: And if nothing else, just remember, we're all human here, folks. Be kind, be polite, love one another.

Chelle: Yeah, please don't litter. Be good to Salem. It's a very old town.

Laylla: Be good no matter where you are. Let's face it. East Coast, West Coast, north, south, I don't give a shit where you are. We need a little more kindness in this world. And, you know, maybe one of the bad habits you could shed at Samhain is being more loving to humans.

Chelle: We don't want to shed that.

Laylla: You want to add that.

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: Well, I was going, I was trying, I was initially going to say you need to shed being an asshole here and there, but I thought that was kind of mean, so I was trying to turn it around, and it didn't work out for me. Shed your not-so-niceness, folks. Be kind. Do some divination. If you have kids, take them out trick-or-treating because I still say, I don't care what anybody says, trick-or-treating with your kids is a, is a equally beautiful way to celebrate Samhain.

Chelle: And if you show up at my door and you say trick-or-treat, you're getting candy. I don't care how tall you are. I don't care how old you are. If you're polite and you say trick or treat, I got candy for you.

Laylla: Shit, how am I going to get to California for for candy knocking on your door?

Chelle: I love it. We decorate. Everyone loves our house. We always have so much fun. I do love being in a neighborhood where lots of kids come through. It is a blast.

Laylla: And you know, actually, that's one one last thing I wanted to quickly mention because you you sparked this idea. I had someone at work ask me if Halloween offended me as a witch. Do you feel Do you know any witches or pagans or wiccans that are actually offended by like Halloween proper?

Chelle: No, I don't. Um, that's not to say there aren't any, but I can't think of any. The only thing I could think of where I've ever heard of anyone being offended was there were some signs uh at a Walmart once years ago that was basically like, "Burn the witch. The only good witch is a dead witch." There were some signs like that that I know people really really worried people and found offensive. But other than that, I've never heard of that.

Laylla: In my in my former workplace, uh when I when I was still in New York State, I would get offended on how my workplace, their idea of decorating for Halloween was pretty much solely green-faced witches. And like, they knew that I was pagan and knew that I was a witch, and I felt like it was a dig, and I really because of that kind of came to hate the green-faced witch thing. I love Wizard of Oz, don't get me wrong, but I love green, don't get me wrong.

Chelle: Love Bora.

Laylla: I love Bora. But but somehow that green-faced witch can tend to rub me the wrong way. But as long as people aren't ridiculously offensive, I am down with Halloween. I love dressing up. I love going out. I was brokenhearted when my kids stopped trick-or-treating at like 18 or 20 years old.

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: But I will I would be the first person. You give candy to teenagers, folks, because those teenagers could be vandalizing, procreating when they're too young to, doing drugs. Give them the candy if they knock on your door. There's nothing wrong with it.

Chelle: And as a parent of children who were taller than me by the time they were nine years old.

Laylla: No joke. True story.

Chelle: True story. Don't tell me my kids are too old. She was nine. Nine. Just because they're tall doesn't mean they're not little.

Laylla: My kids, I can't remember if it was 18 or 20, but my kids trick-or-treated until they were like 18 or 20.

Chelle: I would have happily given them candy.

Laylla: Yeah.

Chelle: No joke. I have zero problems with that. I love it.

Laylla: But I I was in a neighborhood where people embraced the concept. If they're trick-or-treating, they're not causing trouble. Just give the kids candy.

Chelle: I do remember one year trick-or-treating in your neighborhood with my kids, and we had a blast because the neighborhood went all out. There were adults giving adult beverages to other adults that were trick-or-treating. People were, you know, pulling wagons behind them with food. There were barbecues. There was music. It was We were walking down the street in cloaks, and nobody was looking at us with weird faces?

Laylla: Oh, yeah. I always dress up as a witch.

Chelle: Yeah. What's your costume? Really.

Laylla: This is me, 365. So, folks, we want you to have a happy and safe Samhain. We want you to have a happy and safe Day of the Dead and New Year. And we'll catch you for the next tick in December.

Chelle: Yeah, we'll see you on the other side of the veil.

Laylla: Thank you so much for listening to this special throwback edition of Back on the Broomstick.

Chelle: That was super fun. And I'm going to reiterate, that was that was a good solid episode.

Laylla: It really was.

Chelle: I just want to I just want to remind folks, um, if you aren't aware, Laylla and I, pre-Back on the Broomstick, had a little short-lived, uh, podcast called The Stoned Witches Hour. So if you haven't checked it out, um, search it where you search your podcasts. It was actually a lot of fun. What do we got, like 72 episodes of greatness? Um, so go check that out.

Laylla: If you like paranormal stories with a little bit of, uh, cannabis mixed in.

Chelle: And a witchy twist.

Laylla: Witchy, weed, and ghosties.

Chelle: There you go. If you If that's your bag, check out The Stoned Witches Hour. So thank you guys again for listening. If you liked this episode, give us a like, give us some stars, a review.

Laylla: Send us an email at backonthebroomstick@gmail.com. Check out our Instagram, Facebook, and YouTube. And, uh, we will see you tomorrow.

Chelle: Happy Samhain, everyone.

Laylla: Blessed Samhain to you all, and keep it witchy.
