Laylla: Welcome to Back on the Broomstick, a modern witches' spoken word grimoire, where two witchy friends from way back are reconnecting to their pagan roots after a long period of mundanity. We're rewalking the path of the wise and trying out all the latest spells, rituals, and magical theory in today's witchcraft and pagan practices. So grab your wand and your incense, your cauldron and your crystals, and join us as we get back on the broomstick.

Laylla: Welcome to Back on the Broomstick. I'm Laylla, and on this All Souls' Day, we'll be talking about someone every tarot reader out there can call on as an ancestress. The almost forgotten artist behind the most iconic version of tarot, what is known as the Rider-Waite-Smith version. And I don't mean Rider, who was the publisher, or Waite, who was the esoteric brains behind it. I mean Smith, Pamela Colman Smith.

Chelle: Why do they always forget the woman? Right? That makes me so frustrated, and not only was her name left off for decades, but she was barely paid anything for the artwork that she did.

Laylla: Seriously. She is the artist mother of the Rider-Waite-Smith tarot deck, now often called the Waite-Smith or Smith-Waite deck, if you prefer. So for this episode, we'll be focusing on Pamela, also known as Pixie, as well as her life, her art, and her huge influence on the tarot cards that we know and love today.

Chelle: I'm really excited that we're doing this. And welcome, everybody. Chelle here, and I just want to say, there's more to the story than tarot, and I was just taken aback at Pamela Colman Smith's story. So we're going to dive into it, and we're going to talk about a little more of her life other than her tarot piece. I was just fascinated, fascinated. When I first saw a picture of her, I was immediately drawn in. Her personality just crackles off the picture. You can see it in every single picture of her. You can see the life and the energy that she must have had. When I see pictures of her, she reminds me of a tarot reader, someone that knows things. And obviously, she knew things because these pictures, this deck, and you know, I have more decks than one person really should have, but this is the deck that has stood the test of time. I mean, this came out in what, 1909? And here we are in 2024, and it is still the most sold deck, like, on the planet. Still.

Laylla: There are over 100 million copies worldwide.

Chelle: And I own probably seven of them.

Laylla: And when I first started out, my first deck was a Waite-Smith clone, and it was called a Rider-Waite deck. Never ever heard of Pamela Colman Smith in the first several decades that I read cards.

Chelle: Neither did I. Now, funny story. So, you know, I have this obsession, but I never ever, ever would use the Rider-Waite deck. Never. You know why? Because it just felt too basic to me, even from the onset 30 years ago. I skipped over it. I didn't want it a part of my collection. I actually only obtained, actually multiple copies of it, in my collection in maybe the last 10 years. But you know I've only used maybe two or three decks to consistently read with.

Laylla: As much of a collector as you are, most of the time they're a novelty. You collect them for the artwork, and you might do a pull or two, but there's just a couple decks that you consistently work with for personal or for public readings.

Chelle: I have avoided this deck for 30-plus years, and sure as shit, guess what I am using right now?

Laylla: All right, to be fair, you say that you don't use a Smith-Waite version of the deck. However, anything that you think of as a traditional tarot deck is based on Pamela Colman Smith's artwork. Your favorite deck to read with for a very long time was the Robin Wood deck. That is a Rider-Waite-Smith clone. Even though someone else redid the artwork, they're basically copying Pamela Colman Smith's artwork and the symbology that she worked into each of these cards. So it might not call itself a Rider-Waite-Smith deck or Rider-Waite-Smith clone, but unless it's completely reimagined, most of the time these decks follow Pixie's artwork. So I think your collection has a lot of Rider-Waite-Smith clones or decks that are very similar to her artwork, but I think you only specifically have a handful that are called Rider-Waite-Smith, right?

Chelle: You know I have, you know, the mini deck, I have the Radiant, I have I have all the versions in my collection. But what I've been using lately is the Rider-Waite-Smith Centennial deck, which was a nod to kind of give her that recognition all these years later. It was a version of the deck that they took back to like her original, I think, colors. If you look at the various versions, the coloring is different, and I think this version, the Centennial version, they took it back to the most accurate to how she released it originally as possible.

Laylla: So let's rewind a little bit. Pamela Colman Smith was born in London to American parents. She was born February 16th, 1878, in Pimlico, London, and she traveled quite a lot with her family, to the point where she'd lived in London, she lived in Jamaica, she lived in America, and then she lived back in the United Kingdom. She's a little bit of a mysterious figure. Even during her time, people weren't quite sure what to make of her. She was loud. She wore men's pants. She was colorful. She was ambiguous. They didn't know if she liked men. They didn't know if she liked women. They didn't know if she was possibly biracial. They didn't know where she came from, and she perpetuated a lot of these stereotypes. Her parents were writers and artists. Her grandfather was the mayor of Brooklyn, so her family was somewhat connected to the bohemian scene.

Chelle: But still in an affluent kind of way.

Laylla: And she spent quite a bit of her childhood, I believe she was about 5 years old when her family moved to Jamaica, and it very much impacted her, to the point where when she came back from Jamaica, she would very often speak in a Jamaican dialect to kind of impress or fluster the people around her. And she wrote a book called Anansi Stories, telling the folktales, and I believe it was the first book that published these verbal folktales from Jamaica, and it was quite popular at the time. And she did that when she was 19 years old.

Chelle: Wow. I did read one thing I found was interesting as far as her travels and whereabouts throughout her life is that she moved to a art colony in New Hampshire, which back then, in in that time period, who's moving to New Hampshire? It's cold up there. But yeah, no, she went up to New Hampshire and spent some time with an art colony up there.

Laylla: Yep, she spent a lot of time at the Cornish Art Colony in New Hampshire, and it was a place for artists to go, be creative, and to be in nature. It was interesting because prior to that, she had spent time at the Pratt Institute in Brooklyn, New York, prior to going to the artist colony. And there she was exposed to everything. She like thrived in that bohemian atmosphere, and her art was passionate and expressive and inclusive and very much broke all the norms of the time. So she went from there to the Cornish Art Colony, and those are the two places that really formed her artistic expression.

Chelle: They say that that kind of brought a lot of inspiration to her as far as drawing on spirituality and things of, you know, intuition in her art. And that was really a little bit prior to her doing the tarot deck. And I read in a couple different places that they think that her time spent in the art colony in New Hampshire inspired some of the backdrops of some of the cards, as well as her time spent in Wales and saw those backdrops inspiring the cards.

Laylla: Interesting. She was a prolific artist in her early 20s, and her father her mother died when she was around 15, I believe while she was in Jamaica. She was very close with her father and traveled quite a bit with him, and he tried to help her once she published this book, Anansi Stories. And he actually introduced her to Bram Stoker.

Chelle: I saw that. She actually traveled with Bram Stoker for a while and and did a lot of work, and I was like, are you kidding?

Laylla: Yes, at the time he was like the stage manager for the Lyceum Theatre. And so he managed all these actors and actresses at the time, and basically Pamela Colman Smith charmed the pants off of him. She showed him these miniature sets and miniature dolls that she did all these plays with, and he immediately hired her to work on costumes and set design.

Chelle: Another interesting thing, though, is that she, I think, she spent some time with these folks in a period where there was a lot of, I don't know if fantasy and mysticism is the right way to explain it, but—

Laylla: You're exactly right. I mean, the Golden Dawn was coming up. Aleister Crowley was being weird at this time.

Chelle: Right. Like, there was a lot of like she was starting to get, you know how it was like when we were in college, like the theater kids are kind of like in with each other and that, and she was kind of that theater group kind of brought her into the Hermetic Order, you know what I mean?

Laylla: They did. That theater group was all people that were part of the Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn. They were all part of mysticism and learning all of this magic, and she was right in the thick of it.

Chelle: As an artist.

Laylla: As an artist. And one of the actresses at the time, like the premier actress at the time, was Ellen Terry. And Ellen Terry kind of took Pamela under her wing, gave her the nickname Pixie, because people said things about Pamela Colman Smith like she was that odd artist mystic girl, and other people said things like she looked like the goddaughter of a witch and a sister to a fairy.

Chelle: That's a compliment.

Laylla: Right, seriously. But people would call her dark and mystic and witchy, and Ellen Terry was also very bohemian. She had lots of babies and lovers and was not married, and she was loud and proud and and an actress at the time.

Chelle: A bohemian in a more acceptable way.

Laylla: Well, you know, acceptable as an actress could be at that time. But she was also part of the Golden Dawn, and so they took her in, and she started to go through the orders, because the Golden Dawn has uh, they have stages, they have orders you have to go through. And Pixie kind of did some classes here and there, but most importantly, this is where she met Arthur Edward Waite, A.E. Waite.

Chelle: Now, one thing that she did as a means to earn money, that I I just I could not believe this. This was one of those fun fact of the day things for me. She actually was was quite the spearhead for supporting women's rights to vote. She was a part of that movement. She actually illustrated posters that was some of the things that she did to kind of do her part for the the greater good. She designed a lot of those posters, and I actually went back, and you know, I don't know if you've looked at any of these or seen any of these, you look at some of those posters for the voting rights, they kind of look like tarot cards.

Laylla: You can see that Art Nouveau style. You can see her style really come through, and some of her artwork is absolutely gorgeous. It has been shown in a few places, and and we'll get to how she died, but unfortunately, a lot of her work has been lost.

Chelle: It definitely was one of those things like diamond in the rough. I don't think at the time people appreciated her skill, and I think it's just because the time and period was very oversaturated with artists, you know what I mean? I mean, she did, you know, she was in a in an art colony full of artsy people. She was in Greenwich Village full of artsy people. She was just I I don't think her personality allowed her to blow up while she was living.

Laylla: She did a little bit. I mean, she sold she illustrated a bunch of books. She was working quite a bit in her younger 20s, and she got this commission to work with A.E. Waite. He didn't pay her very much.

Chelle: I heard her describe it as a lot of bit of work for a little bit of pay.

Laylla: Yes. There are a couple books out, biographies, that do have some of her letters and writings in them, so you can see what she says about this job. So what they did was A.E. Waite, who was a mystic and a scholar and also a Grand Master of the Golden Dawn, had this idea for tarot cards. So he met with Pixie, Pamela Colman Smith, and hired her to draw these cards. And he gave her very detailed instructions about the Major Arcana, but very little instruction about the Minor Arcana.

Chelle: That wasn't a big thing back then, though, the Minor Arcana. Usually in the early Italian decks from, you know, the 1600s and such, they were just almost like what we would look at as modern-day playing cards. Some people call them the pip cards, or I call them the Minor Arcana cards, but they were just almost like a a side thought to the Major Arcana.

Laylla: Right, until Pixie came along and gave them life and gave them layers and depth that they had never had before.

Chelle: And changed the world of tarot reading.

Laylla: So now, instead of saying, okay, that's the Six of Diamonds, that means teaching, sharing, generosity, you know, giving of yourself, instead of memorizing that or looking in the book, you could look at the picture. You didn't even need to know what the Six of Diamonds meant or the Six of Cups or the Six of Pentacles meant. You could use the imagery and have a really damn good idea of what it means. And a lot of this imagery came from her love of mysticism, from Arthur Waite's descriptions of things, but it also came from an interesting place because Pixie had synesthesia.

Chelle: What is that?

Laylla: Synesthesia is basically where your senses in your brain get crossed somehow, so you can taste colors, you can see music, you can hear scent.

Chelle: No shit.

Laylla: No shit. And in Pixie's case, she said she saw pictures when she listened to music. And so very often when she did these cards, she would be in a meditative state with music playing, and she would do these paintings while she was basically channeling the music and these images that Arthur Waite told her about.

Chelle: You know, I think this is just my theory here, who the hell am I, but I think that it was a combination of he did give her kind of the basis with the Major Arcana and a brief outline with just some brief bullet points on the Minor Arcana, and I think she took that, like you said, almost like channeling something.

Laylla: Exactly.

Chelle: Almost like, what do they call that again when when—

Laylla: A download?

Chelle: Yeah, yeah.

Laylla: Yeah, yeah. No, she really did.

Chelle: You know, combined the download with his bullet points and created the Minor Arcana.

Laylla: It took her about 5 months to do it, and she based a lot of the cards—

Chelle: And she got that amount of big amount of big amount of money? No.

Laylla: She did 80 illustrations in 5 months, and some of them she based on people that she knew, like Ellen Terry is the Empress. Ellen Terry's daughter, Edith Craig, she's the Queen of Wands. William Terriss, who was an actor at the time, he's the Fool. The black cat on the Queen of Wands is a friend of hers' cat named Snuffles. I don't know how true that is, but that's what I've heard. But other people were people that she knew in the theatrical world. She modeled some of the clothing on costumes that she styled from the Lyceum group.

Chelle: The other thing I wanted to mention is that when she was doing some of these cards, and like you said, that she had come up with 80, well, we all know a standard tarot deck is 78 cards. If you get the Centennial edition of the Rider-Waite-Smith deck, it actually does come with all 80 cards, and what the other two cards are are just, I want to call it a painting, but it's on a tarot card. You know, it's like artwork, but it's not actually a card. And I've actually used those, shuffled them in with the other cards, and there's only been a couple times that one or both have come out.

Laylla: Look at you using a mini Magpie deck.

Chelle: Shush yourself here, shush, shush, shush. But it's almost like you put your own interpretation to it. It's almost like the Joker, the Fool, the wild card, you know?

Laylla: I am a big fan of Magpie decks, but what I mostly do is use a standard 78-card deck and then a few wild cards, and I started that a long time ago with the Londa Tarot. The Londa Tarot has a 79th card. It's beautiful, and it's called the "Who Are You Really?" card. And that, for me, when that would pop up, it could change a reading. It added an extra dimension. And so that's something that I'll do now. I love to add a few oracle cards in or, you know, a handful of wild cards as opposed to like a really busy deck.

Chelle: Yeah, those the two extra cards in the Centennial version, they're beautiful, as is the rest of the deck.

Laylla: So now we're going to talk about one of my favorite mysteries—

Chelle: We love a good mystery.

Laylla: I do love a good mystery. One of my favorite mysteries about these tarot cards came before I ever heard of Pamela Colman Smith. And that is, on every single tarot card, there's layers of meaning, there's symbolism from Arthur Waite, mostly in the Major Arcana, and from Pixie herself, mostly in the Minor Arcana. But also on every single card, usually in the lower right-hand corner, you'll see this weird, squiggly sigil, this symbol. Some people have described it as a, how do you say that, caduceus, a snake thing, a sigil, a symbol. Some people say it looks like some sort of, why does everything esoteric have to be Egyptian, but people are like, it's some ancient Egyptian symbol.

Chelle: It's her initials, man.

Laylla: It turns out it's her initials. When I was a kid, like I said, I learned on a Rider-Waite clone, and a lot of these clones will just publish the pictures straight over, and it will have her signature on it, which is this squiggly-looking symbol. It's it's beautiful. She, at one time when she was at the Pratt Institute, one of the classes that she took was about Japanese art, and she learned about Japanese block printing. And a lot of times, the way they'd sign it was these beautiful calligraphy initials.

Chelle: Like turning your initials into a symbol or a sigil, yeah.

Laylla: And so part of the lesson was to create your own initial sigil, and she did. And so it's a P with a very long line, the C, and the S, and a dot.

Chelle: Now, on the Centennial version, um, that is actually on the back of all the cards. It is as well on the picture, but it's on the back as well.

Laylla: I can remember having conversations with other budding witches and tarot readers, and we did not know what this symbol meant.

Chelle: We thought it was like some cryptic thing.

Laylla: I thought it was some sort of sigil. I did not know what it meant, but I am so happy now to know what it is. And it's interesting that its placement varies slightly, usually for artistic reasons. There are some people who will actually read that as a sigil, especially for the few cards that it's not on. Now, I need to talk to you about something real quick.

Chelle: Let me hear it.

Laylla: Now, you know that I have been working on a project that I needed a tarot deck for, and I was, oh Lord, I couldn't take one out of the collection for this project, so I had to go out and buy a specific deck.

Chelle: Of course you did.

Laylla: Because what I'm doing, I wanted, you know, vivid, radiant colors. I ended up getting the Radiant Rider-Waite deck for this project. So, I also have that right here, which the people can't see, but you can see. So, yeah, I mean, I hear you. All the versions I have have her initial sigil at the bottom. Not. Not on this Radiant Rider-Waite. Her signature thing is not on these cards.

Chelle: Oh, that's kind of fucked up, actually.

Laylla: Like to the point where I seriously, well, like take a picture with my phone and text message you. Like, it's not on any of these cards.

Chelle: What the hell?

Laylla: It is on this other deck. They've taken her initial sigil off the card in this version of the deck.

Chelle: Well, I really hate that. That's kind of bullshit. But for the most part, because this artwork is now technically in the public domain, people can just make a Rider-Waite clone or any way they want to. So, if they're slightly redoing the art, I guess they don't have to put her signature on it. And certainly, if they're reimagining the art, even if they're going off of her symbolism, I guess they still don't have to put her signature on it. But it's kind of bullshit.

Laylla: I object. Who do I write? I protest. We need a petition.

Chelle: It's fucked up. We need to have a petition. I mean, I am trying to call it the Smith-Waite deck whenever I can because, seriously, Rider, dude, you're the publisher. Sit back.

Laylla: Who are you, dude? Who are you?

Chelle: Sit down. These are not your nachos. Fuck off. It should be the Smith-Waite deck. Sure, Waite is the author, absolutely. He wrote the book, he wrote the definitions. Some people say that he switched the meanings of the swords and the wands in order to keep non-believers away. Chew on that for a minute. But, uh...

Laylla: Different episode.

Chelle: Different episode.

Laylla: No, this is, this is definitely the Waite-Colman deck, in my opinion.

Chelle: Put her name first.

Laylla: Colman-Waite.

Chelle: The Smith-Waite deck.

Laylla: Smith-Waite. Okay, that works at the time.

Chelle: I don't know. I guess you have to ask her, like, when, is her name hyphenated? Like, is it Colman Smith? Should it be the Colman-Smith-Waite deck? Or should it be the Smith-Waite deck?

Laylla: It's not hyphenated, but Colman was, like, they have it written like a middle name, but it is two last names.

Chelle: All right, people with two last names, would you be the Colman-Smith-Waite deck, or the Smith-Waite deck, or the Colman-Waite deck? I need to know.

Laylla: You know now I've gone down the road before where I had the hyphenated name in the past.

Chelle: Yes.

Laylla: Pain in the ass.

Chelle: Honestly, go, go with a maiden name. Rocket, you're born with it, keep it.

Laylla: She never married, so neither of those were a married name. That was the name she was born with, Pamela Colman Smith.

Chelle: I am so butt-hurt that they, I can't get over it. I'm sorry, you're trying to move on, and I'm so butt-hurt that they took her initial sigil off the Radiant Waite. I, I, I can't.

Laylla: I am too. I wasn't joking about the petition. I mean, we should definitely write a very Karen letter to them.

Chelle: A very Karen letter. We could get pretty Karen on their asses about that. That's kind of ridiculous.

Laylla: Oh, you said Karen. I thought you meant caring, and I was like, caring, what, mate?

Chelle: No, no, Karen.

Laylla: Karen, yes. Karen could be your middle name, but it's not. You're not a Karen.

Chelle: There's my bitch for today. I'm mad at US Games Systems now. Anyway, so she never did marry, so Colman Smith is not her hyphenated married name because she never did marry. She threw lots of really fucking cool parties, to be honest. I wish I had gone to her parties.

Laylla: You know, when you think back, you know how you have these visions of, um, the Roaring Twenties and these Roaring Twenties parties?

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: I feel like she threw a lot of them.

Chelle: Yeah, me too. Supposedly, there was like a list at the door and you had to sign up to perform when you went into one of her salons.

Laylla: I want to be on her list.

Chelle: Right? So she would act out and tell these Jamaican folk tales. She would have famous actors and singers and musicians all there performing for the fun of everybody. I'm sure the weed and the liquor and the opium was probably flying.

Laylla: Imagine, though. So you got this chick who's half Welsh, half Jamaican. Imagine listening to...

Chelle: She's not Jamaican.

Laylla: I thought her mother was.

Chelle: No, it's a rumor. Her parents were from America. Her mother's father was the mayor of Brooklyn. So that doesn't mean she wasn't Jamaican, there's just not a lot of proof that she was. And so there's been a lot of controversy about that. I mean, even when she was alive, she kept her identity very ambiguous. I think she liked the controversy. So...

Laylla: Because they said her dad was Welsh and she, and her mom was, was Jamaican, because I'm thinking, what stories, think of that storyteller.

Chelle: From everything I can find, some people thought she was, and so people were saying she was half Black, and that's why the whole racially ambiguous thing came in, because some people say her mother was Jamaican, some people say her mother was white from Brooklyn. Um, some people say that she was half Japanese.

Laylla: Who gives a shit? She was a good artist. Who cares?

Chelle: Exactly. So it, it doesn't really matter. So nobody really knew. So that was part of her mystique, her charm.

Laylla: It's almost like she never put in any effort to dispel any of the...

Chelle: Oh, no, she leaned into it. She leaned into it. She dressed wild and, yeah.

Laylla: Oh, it's like, yeah.

Chelle: Yeah, she threw these parties, she dressed wild, she broke conventional norms, she, you know, she said what she wanted, she did what she wanted, she never married. She did live with a woman for most of her life, uh, up until she died, yeah, for like the last 20 years of her life, uh, Nora Lake. And she wanted everything that she had to go to Nora when she passed away. But unfortunately, when she passed away, she was broke. Broke-ass, completely broke. And they took everything.

Laylla: What a shitty way to end such a rich life and, and such an impactful life. I mean, this poor woman died a damn pauper, and yet this is the most famous deck on the planet 100 years later. Like, what the hell?

Chelle: I don't think at the time she had any idea, any idea the impact that she would make on the pagan world, on the tarot reading world, because this is what I know. This is what we know. This is the imagery and the iconography, and these are the, the words that we know are the meanings of the Smith-Waite deck.

Laylla: Not to mention all those decks that I love and adore, and the decks that I actually use and, and are like my, my second hand, they're all just different pictures based on the Rider-Waite-Smith decks.

Chelle: Based on these images that she, you know, she took all this esoteric knowledge that she learned in her life, that she got from, uh, A.E. Waite, and she channeled it through her synesthesia into this magical, beautiful deck that we all adore. And, you know, we're still now discussing the nuances of the different lines and the meaning of all the symbology that she has in those cards.

Laylla: It's not just artwork. That's the thing, Laylla. It's not just artwork. Like, this is the most well-known divinatory tool.

Chelle: Yeah, and her version of it is the most well-known divinatory tool.

Laylla: How do you die a pauper? Like, I don't get that. Society sucks sometimes.

Chelle: It does. She did actually kind of reject all the mysticism in her later life and become more of a Christian. She got very much into Welsh fairies and fairy knowledge and fairy lore, but she became kind of a Christian in her later years and a little bit of a hermit. So she went from all these amazing parties, the conversations there, can you even imagine, about magic and what an asshole Aleister Crowley was last weekend, and, you know, and...

Laylla: Did you see what he did? Holy shit.

Chelle: Right? And, you know, what kind of alchemy and magic and ritual are we going to get up to this weekend, and it must have been absolutely amazing. And just the art.

Laylla: I just picture her with one of those, like, long cigarette holders.

Chelle: Right? Lots of beads and scarves and harem pants and...

Laylla: I was going to say, but going against the grain of the time and wearing the pants and not the dresses, but I, I just, I don't know, I have this vision of her being just badass, being like, yeah, I'm one of the guys.

Chelle: She fought for the vote for women's rights. She was loud and she was out there with her ideas. And what an amazing artist. You know, her works are beautiful. There are some places that they have shown her work in the past. I don't know if any of it is up right now, but I do know there's a couple amazing books, including Pamela Colman Smith: The Untold Story by Al Kaplan Stuart. It's a little pricey, saving up for it, but it's gorgeous. It has a, a decent history, a decent, uh, biography, but its big claim to fame is it has a ton of pictures of her art and her letters and, you know, just pictures of her.

Laylla: She has a painting called The Blue Cat that, um, I came across when I was, when I was looking into her, and there's something about that blue cat that I just love. And I was like, damn it, why didn't she put that on a tarot card?

Chelle: Right? I would love to have some of her artwork. How amazing. Yeah, the Whitney Museum of American Art did have some of her work up there, so you can see some of it there. But again, a lot of her work was lost because when, you know, when she died, things got taken, sold, lost, destroyed, and that's, that's pretty sad.

Laylla: Well, and you also have to remember, in the prime of her time, um, we were chugging through not only World War I, but World War II, and that had an effect on some of the whereabouts of her art. And I think that also really did have an effect, honestly, on her credit, or lack thereof, from this deck. I mean, she was, she was designing war posters, um, she was, you know, like I said, she was trying to do the, the struggle to vote posters. I mean...

Chelle: And I don't think...

Laylla: War, I think the war messed up, the war must have messed up her popularity because she had to divert her attention.

Chelle: And I do think that the publisher and Arthur both didn't give a fuck.

Laylla: I love that you just call him the publisher. You won't even name him. You won't even name him.

Chelle: Seriously, though, the two of them basically were like, okay, here's your pennies for this art, now go away.

Laylla: How do we take advantage of this woman to get the art we need?

Chelle: Exactly. They're like, go away, and we're going to sell this deck, and we're going to name it after ourselves because we don't need you.

Laylla: Screw Rider.

Chelle: Right? Seriously. To know that they did that to her, that just kind of sucks. But she passed away September 18th, 1951, at the age of 73. And it does suck that we don't have her stuff, but this episode is coming out on All Saints' Day, on All Souls' Day, and what better ancestor to honor than to maybe, maybe pull a card for, do a little tarot journaling for Pamela Colman Smith, for Pixie. We're going to post some pictures of her on our social so that you can see how cool and badass she looks. I mean, I want to be her friend. I wish I had known her. She looks like she was a fucking trip.

Laylla: Well, she also looks like someone I would want to totally, like, spend 100 hours talking about the tarot deck with.

Chelle: Yeah, to go to one of these parties and to talk to her about her artwork and the meaning behind it and, you know, the meaning of life, the universe, and everything while we smoke a joint or two. How did you come up with the blue cat, Pamela?

Laylla: And when are we going to get the blue cat tarot deck next, you know? Right, right. That would be so great. But yeah, so she is an ancestor that I am definitely honoring on All Souls' Day today. So thank you, Pixie.

Laylla: I sure as hell hope that she's, like, haunting, like, Rider somewhere, and I'm like, you are, you are now known as he who shall not be named.

Chelle: That's right, you're the publisher, ha ha ha. So, yes, pick up your Smith-Waite deck, pull a card for the ancestors today, and, uh, honor Pamela Colman Smith, one of our founding queens, one of our founding ladies.

Laylla: Without her, it wouldn't be possible.

Chelle: It would not be the same, that's for sure.

Laylla: We would have 200-and-some-plus decks that have just basically diamonds, spades, hearts, and clubs on them. What fun would that be? That would not be quite as fun. So, thank you all so much for listening to this episode of Back on the Broomstick. Thank you so much for hanging out with us. Chelle and I very much enjoy your witchy company.

Chelle: Stay wise, stay wicked.

Laylla: And keep it witchy.
