Laylla: Welcome to Back on the Broomstick, a modern witches' spoken word grimoire, where two witchy friends from way back are reconnecting to their pagan roots after a long period of mundanity. We're rewalking the path of the wise and trying out all the latest spells, rituals, and magical theory in today's witchcraft and pagan practices. So grab your wand and your incense, your cauldron and your crystals, and join us as we get back on the broomstick.

Laylla: Hi, and welcome to Back on the Broomstick. I'm Laylla, and today for this Halloween hangover episode, we'll be talking about witches' New Year divinations, charm casting for the dark half of the year.

Chelle: Hello folks, Chelle here, and I'm really excited for this episode because here in Salem, we are recovering from what is called Halloween hangover, and as you all know, witches' New Year, except for our lovely friends down under. For you folks, I hope the beginning of your summer is freaking fabulous and all good things for flourishing and growth and prosperity for your summer ahead. But for us Northern Hemisphere folks, it's really the depths of the dark time. It is the witches' New Year. To me, the start of that magical year. You know, I do follow the the calendar New Year, January 1st, the big ball drop thing, but this is really kind of that magical New Year start. You know, kind of like in work, you know, my fiscal New Year is in July, my witches' New Year is in October, the calendar New Year is in January. You know, so this is kind of the time to reflect on where have I been and what is to come.

Laylla: We just turned the clocks back here in North America, and I hate it. I really do.

Chelle: I'll be honest with you. I love the fall back. It's the spring forward I hate.

Laylla: Really? You like it when it gets darker early at night?

Chelle: No, what it is is I like sleep, and I like that extra hour. That's really what it breaks down to. That's really what it breaks down to.

Laylla: I love the extra hour of sleep, but that does not make up for the six months of dark at 5:00 p.m. I hate that.

Chelle: Dude, seriously. Like, you don't even understand. Today, I was out, and it was getting dark at like 4:30. Like 4:30. It is not my favorite.

Laylla: The the one day of one hour extra sleep, while wonderful, and I do very much enjoy that, does not make up for so dark. I hate it so much.

Chelle: You know, I I have to interject something real quick here, and I I know I'm getting off topic, but I saw this Facebook post today, and it was by it was it was posted by someone in our pagan sphere, and it was about how like the Romans and the Celts created daylight savings time, and it was hysterical. But like, the the reality is, why are we doing this, people? Like, why are we doing this? Aren't we one of the few countries left that does this?

Laylla: Maybe. I think so. I know there's even some states in the US that don't do it. Um, it's kind of ridiculous, and I really wish we'd stop.

Chelle: It it messes with my insides.

Laylla: It messes with everybody.

Chelle: But here's the thing, though. It kind of it's almost like that physical reminder that we are like, I forget who doesn't that the dark time actually really starts in June. Who's thinking of the dark time come mid-August? Right. But this is like that physical reminder that like we're going deep for the next few months. You know, we're staying in, we're hermiting, looking ahead, and that kind of brings us to tonight and and this topic is looking ahead to this next year to come.

Laylla: This is the time of year, especially now that I live in a place where it's very dark and very cold and very difficult to get outside.

Chelle: Welcome to the Happy Lands.

Laylla: I'm trying to look forward to working with the rhythm of the land, uh, being inside, being indoors, doing more crafty things, uh, doing more journaling. I'm going to start that year of the dark goddess at Yule. So, definitely going within is is part of the whole theme of the season, right? And also with the theme of the season is divination. And I think doing a a six-month, like a half-year divination, one at Samhain and one at Beltane, is a really great idea to give you a little bit of a glimpse at what your, you know, your next turn of the wheel is going to be from this major holiday to the next one. Whatever your favorite type of divination will be, it it's just a nice thing to do to give you a set point, to tell you where you're at right now with whatever the situation that you've been working on this year is. This is where you're at right now. This is how far you've come since you've set that intention, maybe at Beltane, maybe at January 1st. But this is where you're at right now. Now you have the rest of the dark half of the year to get yourself to where you wanted to be. Doing a divination right now is a great way to see where you're at and what you need to do to get where you want to go.

Chelle: Now, you had to go ahead and give me a new freaking hobby, of course. So, now I'm collecting charms.

Laylla: You know, it's funny because I think every single witch has, and you all know you have it, somewhere on a desk or a dresser or on a bookshelf, you have a collection of little statues or trinkets or coins or little bones, cute sticks that you found, nice little stones, some that were given to you, some that you found. You know, you might have a little drawer, but you all have one.

Chelle: We're looking at you. We are looking at you. Chelle looked at her little collection and was like, "Oh, fuck. I made myself a charm casting kit, didn't I?" You know, you know what I did? I just took all the shit I had and put it in a bag and was like, "Voila, a charm bag." There it is. But I have actually consciously started, you know, I've purchased a couple things. When we went and did our workshop series at the Central New York Pagan Pride Day, I picked up acorns, which, by the way, in case you didn't notice, I threw some in your charm bag, too. You know, just things I've picked up along the way and have added to it. But damn, what is with witches liking shiny things?

Laylla: We all do. We all do. It seems like things you can put things in and shiny things. It's hard to resist.

Chelle: I love containers and shiny things.

Laylla: And you know, honestly, with my divination lately, I've found, you know, you and I are both tarot buffs. Uh, you collect tarot, I love to read tarot. It's just in our blood, I guess. But lately, I've been finding that I really like my charm casting set to give clarity sometimes to my tarot readings. I'll find that I'll pull some cards, and then I'll grab some charms from my bag that kind of give me more meaning and more depth to the reading.

Chelle: Now, you know, I just want to talk about you just said depth and meaning. I want to talk a little bit about meanings of these charms because, you know, you go on the old Google, and, you know, people are quick to accept other people's, um, correspondences, definitions, symbolisms, whatever the hell you want to call it. And, you know, the thing I think that I'm starting to dig about the charms is that it is so like you are not going to get a more individualized divination system than this. Like, it doesn't get more individualized than this. Like, you can pick, which I've done, hundreds of tarot decks, and it's still not, you know, you might pick a deck that that the art calls to you or, you know, certain cards speak to your soul. But are you going to really have that connection with 78 cards? Meh, probably not. But this charm thing and and how I'm starting to get addicted to this quick is these are all things that, for whatever reason, I have some sort of connection with, and what I get out of that symbol and that charm isn't necessarily going to be the same to you. And, you know, before we started recording, we don't necess- it's not like we go through each other's charm bags or anything. I had asked you about a few and and did we have a couple in common, and we found a charm that we had in common, um, a seashell. And without telling you what I have written down as my definition, I asked you what your definition is. So, just for the sake of the people, tell me, when you cast a seashell, for example, what does that seashell mean to you?

Laylla: So, we both have a spiral seashell, and mine means goddess and inner goddess. It also means divine wisdom. It can also sometimes mean communication, you know, like when you hold a shell up to your ear and you can hear like the ocean in it. So, sometimes it can mean communication with your subconscious or with what your higher guides have to say to you.

Chelle: Ooh, I like that. Now, I uh, for my shell, I look at it as uh cleansing and messages. And I think where I pull that from is, you know, shells are in the ocean, and the ocean I look at as like a carrier of messages. I think of like a message in a bottle. Mhm. And the ocean I look at as a cleanser. So, to me, I look at it as cleansing and messages. So, we both have a shell with absolutely different types of meanings.

Laylla: Right. And and for me, looking at this shell, it's the spiral. It's the Fibonacci spiral. And that to me is feminine. It's feminine wisdom. It's that deep inner knowledge. I mean, they look a little bit like a vulva, and so that also says to me feminine and goddess and deep wisdom. And because they're in the water, water has to do with your subconscious, with emotions. And so that's where a lot of those ties come to me. But you you hit on a very good point for that is that that's what is so beautiful about a charm set is that you will call upon some things that are universal, uh but you'll also very much call upon your own deep personal meanings to these.

Chelle: You know, this shell I have, similar to your uh one with the hole in it, it feels smooth. You know, sometimes shells are are are rough, and you can feel the ridges. This is very smooth. You can tell it's it's had its time in the water. You know, the water has just lapped over it enough times to take those grooves out. It's cleansed it like that. And as the water has traveled over it and then travels around the world, it can send those messages, send that communication. And so I guess that's where my meaning comes from. But neither one of us are right or wrong. Right. We're both we're both right because that's how it resonates when you throw it, and that's how it resonates when I throw it.

Laylla: It's very similar to the idea of tea leaf reading. Uh when you're when you're doing tasseomancy and you're looking at the way that the leaves are sitting in the bottom of the cup, they form pictures. And while there are some universal meanings to images, I mean, if you see a car, almost everyone will think travel or something similar to that effect. But it could mean you're getting a car. It could mean that someone's moving away from you, and that's going to depend on the reader and your own intuition. So, some things will be relatively universal, but a lot's going to really depend on the reader and the querent, to be honest.

Chelle: Right. You know, and I and I equate it also to the Strength card in the tarot deck. You know, strength is strength is strength, and and we all get that concept. But I love kitty cats. I love all felines. If I could have a lion and a tiger baby in my house, I would. I swear I would. So, to me, when I see that lion card, I'm looking at strength in a a good, positive way, whereas someone who is deathly afraid of cats and feline creatures, they might look at strength as having to persevere through the storm, you know, get through a very horrible, you know, get through a bad situation because we just have different views of that symbolism. Mhm. But that doesn't negate either of us.

Laylla: Right. Before we started recording, you showed me your list, you know, all your charms written out, and you've written down next to each one of them what they each mean, and I I love that. Yes, journaling.

Chelle: I hate that you just have to point that out all the time. I like to say I like to say I write things down, and you just have to put a word on it.

Laylla: Call it whatever you want, but I got you there.

Chelle: But I I think that that's important because, again, you know, what means something to me might mean something different to you. You know, like, for example, um I have a domino in my set. And the reason I have that domino is because my grandparents, that was like one of their pastimes was playing dominoes. So, to me, that reminds me of like, you know, that family and togetherness, whereas a domino could mean a million things to a million other people. Right. But I I like the concept of writing it down because it almost infuses the power behind it. You know what I'm saying?

Laylla: Yes. Yeah, definitely reinforces it for you, for sure.

Chelle: Almost like it goes from being just a domino to being a magical domino of divination.

Laylla: Yeah. And once you write it down, it gives it more power because now you've reinforced what it means. And I also recommend that when you do a reading, write down the pattern. Like, if you if you do some type of underlayment, like say you do a past, present, future reading where you designate part of the table in front of you as past, present, future, or put some type of mat that has different sections on it when you throw your charms to help give even more meaning to where they fall, write down what your pattern is. Write down where they fall, and write down what your charms meant in that reading, just like you would with tarot, just like with your practicing with tarot, because you might find that that domino means something slightly different if your domino keeps coming up as chance and not family. You know, you might need to kind of respect the fact that that domino wants to be chance instead, you know? So, writing your readings and keeping track of the meanings and how they change over time is important as well.

Chelle: Honestly, right now, I'm still at the grab bag stage. I pull one. I'm like I said, I'm still at the grab bag stage. I'm getting I'm working on it. I have some weird charms, and I think that's also a good reason to write down the definitions because like, I'll give you a couple examples. I have three coins in here. One coin has John F. Kennedy on it. One coin has Queen Elizabeth on it, and one coin has King Charles on it. Shout out to my British folks.

Laylla: It's funny. I have three coins, too. So, tell me about yours, and then I'll tell you about my three coins.

Chelle: So, my JFK coin, that that reminds me of false dreams. It it's just it's what I think of. I don't know. I you know, with the whole Camelot fell. Mhm. So, the JFK coin I look at as kind of false dreams, you know, kind of coming to the reality and and working around the reality of things. My Queen Elizabeth coin, you know, kind of that old order and tradition, following tradition, you know, you do it because you were told to do it. My King Charles coin, new order and updating tradition. Nothing wrong with tradition, but, you know, it is 2024. So, you know, I don't know what the hell other people would have those three coins mean, but to me, to me, Chelle, me, those three coins mean those things to me. And so if I'm doing a reading and I pull out JFK, I'm going to be like, "Uh, I got some shit because Camelot's crumbling." You know what I'm saying?

Laylla: I do. So, I think it's kind of cool that I also have three coins, and I'm going to show you because mine are weird coins. So, this one is a dime, but if you can see, does it have a bullet hole in it? It looks like it was shot. Sort of. This dime was actually caught inside a washing machine, and I fixed the washing machine and pulled this dime out, and it had gotten caught and worn down so much that like the edges are worn off, it's smooth, the face part of the coin is smooth. This coin means two different things when it shows up in a reading. It can mean perseverance, and it can also mean like the ghost in the machine that causes problems that you're not aware of, like underlying problems that you that you might not see.

Chelle: I get some Tower vibes from that coin.

Laylla: I guess so, in the form of like enlightenment, maybe, because I found the source of the problem. But this is more like the pea underneath all of the mattresses for the princess, you know, the the problem that you can feel but you can't quite see.

Chelle: I think that's interesting that we both have a coin that could be a problem coin.

Laylla: Right? I also have this coin here is a pressed penny, and it's a pressed penny from the Philadelphia Zoo.

Chelle: Nice.

Laylla: I got this when I went down to the university to do a presentation about witchcraft, um back in the early 2000s. And so I got this when we went to visit the zoo afterwards. And this penny actually is flat on one side and has a tiger on the other. And this can mean following your dreams if the tiger comes up. But if it's the flat side up, then it can be things that prevent you from following your dreams, like a slippery slope, like things that you might slip on.

Chelle: Roadblocks.

Laylla: Less roadblocks and more slippery things, like more things that might veer you off schedule or might take you away from what you're doing. And my last coin is this big one, and it's got like a a soldier on one side.

Chelle: Oh, that's super cool.

Laylla: Isn't that neat? It's oversized. And on the other, it almost looks like a Maypole. That's your more expressive side. That's the joy of new beginnings. That's liberation. It's it's expression and being yourself and the joy that that can bring. The side with the soldier represents responsibility, following the rules, falling in line. You're like straight-laced in the military and strict, or it's dancing around the Beltane Maypole.

Chelle: Naked dancing.

Laylla: Right? So, these coins don't really have anything to do with money. It has more to do with what they look like, where I got them, like you said, your own personal stories are attached.

Chelle: You know, honestly, the thing I have um in my in my charm bag that is for, you know, luck, good fortune, prosperity, dollar dollars, uh let's get Chelle out of her day job, is actually a green stone. Um so my coins are in there for anything prosperity, financial related. Um I actually have a green stone in there for that. But, you know, sometimes you get keepsakes from friends that end up in your charm bag, and I just, for the sake of this being the sake of, I have to mention this particular charm I have. When I was still located in New York State and at my day job, I had a coworker that was like, this guy literally went to church twice a week, um very, very, very strict Roman Catholic. Wonderful man, and we always had this agree to disagree relationship. Like, he totally respected me, I totally respected him. There was even a time where where my children's grandmother had my son do a religious thing, and I went to my coworker's church to watch my son do this and hung out with my coworker. When he retired, he decided to give away everything at his desk. Instead of him getting gifts, he wanted to gift us with his desk shit. And as a funny haha, at the time, at the time it was a funny haha, being the only witch he knew, he gave me his pocket rosary that he kept in his desk. It's a little round pocket rosary. And I took it. Actually, to be honest with you, he's also the one who gave me the JFK coin. And he gave me this pocket rosary as kind of a a joke between us about our religious differences because he knew that I am a sentimental fool and that I would keep it and cherish it because it was his, which I did. Um, unfortunately, a year or two later, he passed away. And this little pocket rosary, even though it kind of is not anything I believe in, it stays in my charm bag partially as a reminder of him. But I kind of get those that strict organization, fall in line, soldier. That is what I what I take from this particular thing when it comes up. Like almost like that Catholic way, doctrine. You know, that that fall in line, soldier. Don't ask questions, just do what I say. Do what you're told. But as weird as it would be for me of all people to have something like that in my charm bag, the sentimental value behind it is something that would mean nothing to anybody else, but means everything to me, you know what I mean?

Laylla: Yeah. Yeah. My grandmother, who passed when she was 100, one of the things I got when she passed was her Order of the Eastern Star pendant.

Chelle: I love that.

Laylla: And I am not into the Order of the Eastern Star. I, you know, that's Masonic, very Christian. But this is in my charm bag. And, you know, it has meaning that has nothing to do with the Order of the Eastern Star, Christians, or Masons because, again, it's it's personal. And this is the time of year to try new divination sets, to do a divination on yourself, to kind of lay out some tarot cards, grab your charms, and do a little introspection, you know, kind of do a little bit of of shadow work and kind of get into yourself a little bit.

Chelle: You know, this is where it can get fun, too, is is you mentioned earlier the the combining um charms and tarot. You know, for example, I have a Santa key. It is a little key with a Santa head on it. And I kind of look at that as like a like a family uh you know, generosity, joyfulness kind of symbol. And I did do a reading right before Samhain, and I was looking at charms, and that charm kept popping out to me. And yes, Samhain is what it is, but there can be some joy in that veil thinning, some joy in that New Year, some generosity and and you know, goodwill and all of that. And, you know, here in Salem, sometimes that time of year, goodwill is just not yelling at tourists. And, you know, sometimes I I noticed that the charms, and by doing that, my point is, is that it can almost, like you said, make that like next level of depth in your reading.

Laylla: Yeah. Yeah, absolutely. It sounds like you've been using it a lot. Have you been using your charm set pretty regularly?

Chelle: I have. Like I said, just just as like one pulls, like like grab bag, you know?

Laylla: Yeah.

Chelle: Stick your hand in a bag, feel around, what pulls to you, you grab kind of thing. I haven't I I I'm struggling with the spread thing because I don't necessarily like any of the spread formats I've come across yet.

Laylla: Yeah. Have you tried um Have you tried doing one that's cut into quadrants for quarters, like north, east, south, and west?

Chelle: Yeah, but then I was just like, "Well, what does this all mean to me?" Like, so I throw I throw a fucking domino in the west. What is this? You know what I mean?

Laylla: Right. Good point. The pattern has to make sense to you. A lot like a tarot um a tarot spread, what you use to cast on has to make sense. Like, are you just doing a pull, or are you actually casting them on a table and counting meaning by where they fall on the table and how they fall in relationship to each other?

Chelle: You know, I never thought of it that way, just kind of tossing it out because, you know, I can I can have my own sense of north, south, east, west without having it, you know, laid out on a cloth, but just kind of tossing out, see what lands where.

Laylla: Exactly like that. And that's kind of what I've been doing a lot lately is laying out a tarot spread and then toss some charms on top of that, just to give more meaning and clarity sometimes.

Chelle: You know I love tarot spreads. You know I love making up new tarot spreads. Laying out a tarot spread and using that as my quote-unquote cloth. Um what charms land on what cards, what charms don't land on any card.

Laylla: Yeah.

Chelle: Me personally, I would take it as, because I still have a small set, I mean probably 15, 20 charms. Um you know me, that will grow exponentially. But I would personally take that as if I threw my bag on my spread, if a charm didn't land on a card, it was irrelevant and needs to go back in the bag. You know, like how you shuffle the cards and not all of them get laid out.

Laylla: That's really close to how I do it. I usually, you know, lay my cards out and then I'll reach into my charm bag and usually just grab a small handful or just a couple and drop them onto the the reading. And I do count the ones that don't land on cards. Their meaning adds to the position of the card. So say the charm falls next to a card that's in the obstacles position of your reading. Maybe the crocodile, I have this crocodile pin that comes up, and uh it means problems that aren't as big as you think they are. So maybe that'll come up in the obstacles, so I know that the obstacles are really all in my own head. You know, so it that's how it'll add to that meaning, whether it's on the card or near the card, its placement in that tarot spread will kind of help to clarify the meaning of the card.

Chelle: Here's the problem my sweet brain has with mixing the charms and the tarot. Somewhere in my brain, I feel like because there's 78 cards, I need 78 charms.

Laylla: I was waiting for you to say because you have 227 tarot decks, you need 227 different sets of charms.

Chelle: We're not there yet. Let's just don't push me over the edge, woman. But like because and that was part of the reason that I thought that it would be beneficial to write down my personal definitions because, like you said, you know, you you start collecting a bunch of stuff, and maybe you have two things that kind of have that same meaning for you, and then dare I say meditate, um maybe you need to meditate on which one you really should be using.

Laylla: Yeah. Yeah, or maybe like what happened to me is, you know, I collect things because I like them or they look cool or I'm drawn to them in some way. But as I start reading with them, I'm like, "Well, you know, that cool piece of sea glass doesn't really add anything to any of the readings it shows up in." So, I like it, but I'm going to take it out of my set for now.

Chelle: That's so funny. That's so funny because today today, I was like, "You know what? I should put a piece of sea glass that Laylla gave me into my charm bag." And then I was like, "You know, but what would it really mean?" And then I didn't do it.

Laylla: Funny you say that. I had a piece of sea glass in, and it never meant anything. It never really worked. I thought it would mean something like persevering through like the water making it soft or something, but it never it never worked out that way.

Chelle: It didn't stick.

Laylla: What did work, though, is I have this piece of um ceramic that I found while I was on Lake Ontario.

Chelle: It looks like a piece of nicotine gum.

Laylla: Does it? It's about the size of like a chiclet, like a chiclet piece of gum, right? But it's it's ceramic, and it's very smooth because it was in Lake Ontario for, you know, the gods know how long. But it's black on one side and white on the other. So, this is my yes-no piece. So, not sea glass, but it's technically like beach ceramic, close enough.

Chelle: No, I I remember when when I first started collecting, which wasn't too long ago, as you recall, things just started falling into my path.

Laylla: Yeah.

Chelle: Little charms were falling into my path. And I think one thing that I wanted to to definitely point out is a charm can be a a necklace pendant that's not on a necklace.

Laylla: They can be actual charms that you buy at the store.

Chelle: Right, but two I wanted to point out, at my day job, which remember, folks, we're all we're all praying to the gods to get Chelle out of her day job. So, I'm at my day job, and I go outside to smoke a cigarette, don't judge me. And I look down on the ground because, you know, here, you know, in it's been a crazy month in Salem, like 1.2 million visitors. I look down, and there was an earring on the ground, and it caught my eye, so I pick it up. It was a little green witch hat with gold stars on it.

Laylla: That's so cute.

Chelle: So, I took the earring piece off of it and put it in my charm bag. And it kind of reminds me of that, you know, I have a pentacle in my bag that has that more spiritual meaning, and but this is that more fun magical side is is what it means to me. And that was actually supposed to be an earring. And then around the same time, I went to work one day, and I had a wonderful coworker, very religious in her own right, gave me a keychain pendant, and it says, "Be strong, be brave, be fearless, you are never alone." And I was like, "That's a damn good message for my charm bag." Um so, I took it off the keychain and put that in my charm bag. So, it doesn't have to be like a key or a coin or, you know, it could be a pendant or or like the witch hat, an earring.

Laylla: Or like this is a this is an old cup from like a Monopoly set or something like that, a pewter cup.

Chelle: Looks like a thimble.

Laylla: Yeah, well, I do have one of those as well. This is an antique thimble. Look at this little basket that the thimble came in.

Chelle: Oh my god. Was that made by fairies? I love the basket better than the thimble.

Laylla: Symbolizes craftsmanship. But it's a basket with a top that has a thimble inside of it. It's an antique. It's very cool. But there's a couple different stages of collecting charms that I think most of you find. First of all, when you first decide to collect charms, you're going to, A, discover that you already have a set somewhere.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: And then, B,

Chelle: You're going to be obsessive about it.

Laylla: Then you're going to start seeing them everywhere. All of a sudden, charms that need to go in your charm kit are going to show up everywhere.

Chelle: I need a charm. Here's the thing. Right now, I I'm hell-bent on finding a charm, which I have not found yet. Like, I need a charm of an owl. I'm trying to find a charm of an owl.

Laylla: Oh, yes. Yeah, you will. You'll find an owl, I'm sure.

Chelle: This owl keeps hanging out at my house. It's so weird, and there's a reason for it. So, now I want a damn owl charm.

Laylla: Yeah, so you probably need one.

Chelle: I do.

Laylla: It becomes very addictive.

Chelle: A cheaper addiction than tarot, I'll put that out there.

Laylla: I mean, I suppose you could get very expensive charms, but that's kind of the cool thing. I mean, I have some old bones in mine, but I also have sticks.

Chelle: Oh, see, I can't do bones. Yuck, yuck, yuck.

Laylla: Yeah, that's okay. You don't need to do bones in a charm set. They do not have to be bones. But we've already determined that they do have to have meaning to you, and you should write those meanings down. Another thing that you could do, some do, some don't, is to cleanse your charms when you get them. Chelle, do you do any type of cleansing or charging of your charms?

Chelle: Okay, so here's the situation on that. You know, like I said, some of these things, like the the little green witch hat, like I literally found that on the ground on the streets of Salem. It was an earring, which means it was actually like in someone's ear, gaining all their energy. Hell yeah. Hell yeah, I cleansed it. But there are certain things that I have purposefully, intentionally not, and I will I will get to that in a second and why. I have this consecration recipe, oil recipe, that I want to share with y'all for a second here. Spritzer bottle, spray it on your stuff, voila, quick and easy. Frankincense, myrrh, cinnamon, cassia oil, and olive oil is base. If you don't like those scents, try sandalwood, camphor, orange, patchouli, again with olive oil base. Sometimes I'll rub it, sometimes I'll spray it, depends on my mood or what it is. But a couple of things that I will not kind of exorcise the demons from, you know, is things like one thing is a hematite ring that I wore for several years. But I am the person who wore it. It was me. It's my juju in that.

Laylla: Right.

Chelle: I'm okay with that. Like I said before, when I mentioned the pocket rosary um from my friend that passed away, I don't want to cleanse that because I don't want to cleanse his energy from that. And then, again, with my domino, um I don't want to cleanse the energy from that because that has my grandparents' energy oozed into it, and and so, you know, what it is and why I have it and how I obtained it will dictate if I do or don't. Most of the time, yes, but again, there are particular things that for specific reasons, no, I will not.

Laylla: Yep, 100% agree. I have cleansed some things for the same reasons, and I have not cleansed things for the exact same reasons. Uh I do my cleansing a little bit differently. Do you remember when we got those little wooden bowls when you were up here that one time?

Chelle: I do. I love that.

Laylla: Right? We got those cute little bowls. I love those. I mean, I have a ton of different types of bowls and things, but these are perfect.

Chelle: These particular ones um were actually carved out of olive wood.

Laylla: And they're beautiful. And I love them. And they're not very big. They're about hand size. So, they're a good size to put just a couple charms in. And what I like to do to cleanse new charms is I will put some sea salt in the bottom of that, or if I really think it needs to be cleansed, I'll put some of my black salt in there, but most of the time, I just put salt in the bottom. And then I'll either throw in maybe a little bit of rosemary, or maybe I'll put cinnamon in it instead, but some type of cleansing herb as well. Um maybe if I've got some garden sage or something, whatever I have on hand that says cleansing to me, I'll toss in with the salt. And then I'll put the charms in there, and I'll just let them stay in that like overnight or for several days or whatever with the intention of cleansing that energy. If I'm worried about the metal or the stone or whatever I'm putting in there might interact with the salt, I do have some sand from a couple different places that are important to me that I also use as a base for cleansing spells and for things like money bowls and stuff like that. So, if you're worried about the salt, you can always use sand or something else.

Chelle: See, now, in the past, I would have probably done a smoke cleanse, um created my own incense for the purpose and then done a smoke cleanse. But for some reason, I'm just into oils right now.

Laylla: Yeah, exactly. There's so many different ways. I think we've we've mentioned an air way, you can do a smoke cleanse. You can do a candle cleanse, you can pass it

Chelle: Fire way.

Laylla: a fire way, you can pass it over a candle. The water way with Chelle's oil, or now you finally have a way to use up all that moon water you've got sitting around your house. Use that to cleanse your charms and trinkets that you put in your charm bag.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: Depending on what you're using or what your charm is, you may or may not want to put oil on it, so that might depict

Chelle: How you do it, yeah.

Laylla: how you do it, yeah. Mine is more of an earthy way with the herbs and with the wooden bowl and the salt. So, maybe you want to do all of them, maybe you just want to pick one.

Chelle: Honestly, sometimes mine's mood-dependent. What am I what am I in the mood to do?

Laylla: Exactly. Or what I have on hand. Might depend on what's left in my kitchen right now how I do it.

Chelle: Right, right.

Laylla: So, the next thing is cleansing some, not cleansing others. I do like to charge my items or, not exactly charge, but I do like to kind of carry them around and kind of charge them with a purpose, you know, so that they know they're part of a divination set. You know, hold it, think about its meaning, write it down, work with it, that kind of thing.

Chelle: Um I kind of have this, because I keep them in a little bag, I initially I I've done it a couple of different times because, you know, always adding to it, kind of like meditated over the bag itself instead of individual pieces and kind of I almost want to say remind the pieces what I've intended them for. Does that make sense?

Laylla: That fits in really well with one of the next points I wanted to make, which is that sometimes instead of doing a reading, I'll grab my charms and my charm journal, and then I'll just do a random pull and kind of a check-in. Like, does the charm still resonate with the meaning that I have written down? Does it still feel the same way to me? Does it still hold the same resonance as it did before? Kind of like a vibe check with the charms.

Chelle: Does it still feel like this meaning that I wrote down?

Laylla: Exactly. And kind of go through and realign the energy of it. You can also readjust if you need to to a new meaning. And that's also a good way to add new pieces to your set as well.

Chelle: It's like bringing someone in It's like bringing someone into the friend group. You know, you have to you almost have to like initiate them into the friend group, and then they're one of the gang.

Laylla: Yeah. Yeah, and you want to get that energy, those atoms in alignment with what you're doing, right, with your intention.

Chelle: We're all here for divination, folks.

Laylla: Yeah, that's what we're here for, kind of wake them up. You can even, some people like to talk to their items, particularly if it's crystals or some or metals, something like that, that you might want to let them know that they're there for divination.

Chelle: Kind of like how I talk to my tarot cards.

Laylla: Exactly, how you talk to your tarot cards.

Chelle: It it's kind of like um my conversation with the Fool the other night. I feel like I'm the Fool again. Great place to be, actually.

Laylla: That is an interesting place to be, especially this time of year, you know? I mean, kind of going in and and doing that introspection and doing those readings for yourself, seeing where you're at and seeing where you want to go. This is the perfect time of year to, you know, sit down with yourself and take a look and use whatever format of divination you like to do that.

Chelle: Now, I have one more thing I'd like us to do before we wrap up for today. You have your charm set close by, correct?

Laylla: I do. Yep, right here.

Chelle: Okay. So, I want you to, however you do it, I don't care how you do it, I'm a blind picker. Um I want you to pick out three charms for me, and I am going to go into my charm set, and I am going to blindly pick out three charms for you, and then we're going to talk about that for a second.

Laylla: That sounds very fun. All right, give me two seconds to put everything back in the bag. Okay, so I have my charms in my pretty purple charm bag.

Chelle: I got them in my green velvet bag. Are you using an Ipsy bag?

Laylla: No, I wish it was an Ipsy bag, but it's just a nice pretty purple bag. All right, you tell me when, and I will grab three charms as soon as you say stop.

Chelle: Okay, wait. Are you getting them all at the same time, or are you going to pull one, then pull another, then pull another?

Laylla: I'll pull one and then another and then another.

Chelle: Okay. I'm doing it at the same time. Ready, set, pull charm one.

Laylla: Ooh, okay. All right. Ready, set, pull charm two.

Chelle: Interesting. Okay. All right, last one. Ready, set, pull charm three.

Laylla: All right.

Chelle: Interesting. Okay, so what did you pull for my first charm?

Laylla: Acorn hat.

Chelle: Ooh, okay. When we went And and it's so funny because I mentioned this earlier, when we went to um Central New York Pagan Pride Day, remember I was picking up acorns on the ground?

Laylla: Mhm.

Chelle: My acorn and its little hat, it was perfect when I got it, but the hat fell off, and I picked the hat for you, the acorn hat.

Chelle: I love the backstory. So what does the Pagan Pride Day acorn hat mean?

Laylla: In my opinion, and we all have different opinions, um, I have growth and planning ahead.

Chelle: Ooh, okay. Okay.

Laylla: And I think I get I think I get the planning ahead because I think of like a squirrel filling his cheeks for the winter.

Chelle: Okay, I like that. What was your first charm for me?

Laylla: Okay, so the first thing that you got was a piece of chalk.

Chelle: I thought that was a cigarette for a second.

Laylla: Right? No. Not in this charm set, but it is a piece of chalk, and chalk has been associated with magic and magicians and ritual for a very long time. You know, people use chalk to write the chalk circles around themselves to make a magical protective circle or to write runes or sigils. Uh-huh. But it's very often associated with magic work. So in my charm set, it stands for either the ability to write your own future or a need for protection. And in this particular reading, I think it it stands out for a little bit of both. Definitely need to be protected, secure your base, and then start writing charms for the future.

Chelle: Okay. The second charm I pulled for you was my beautiful skeleton key. Is is a is a follower of Hecate. The first thing that comes to me is Hecate and crossroads, but also opening doors and I don't know where the hell I get this from, but like solving mysteries, solving solving something that that you've been that you've been trying to go for. I don't want to say puzzle ain't the right word, but solving a mystery, solving a puzzle, getting something solved. But again, my initial is is Hecate in those crossroads, but that's just, you know, how I am.

Laylla: What I got for you was the big coin, the Beltane coin. I got the the Maypole for you.

Chelle: Thank god you got the Maypole side because I'm so sick of being serious.

Laylla: What I think that this means is that there is a a time of revelry coming up for you. Because the serious face is underneath, that is your base. You have a solid base of strength, of um being regimented, you know, of being orderly, I guess. And so because you have done such a good job taking care of the responsible side, you are going to be able to reap the benefits of the happy spring, the the joyous friendships and being out in the sun, you know, everything that May Day, that Beltane, you know, this fertile, happy, joyous time of life. So what this really says to me is this dark time is going to be taking care of the business part of it, like taking care of what you have to, and then by May, things are going to be looking up. Things are going to be more joyous and and easier. Life will be easier then, as long as you take care of what you need to now, the hidden things, the responsible things.

Chelle: I'm on board for that.

Laylla: Hell yeah. What's the third charm bring us?

Chelle: Okay, so the third charm I picked for you is actually a little pearl bead.

Laylla: Oh, I love pearls.

Chelle: I have a bunch of feelings about pearls that I've written down. Long-awaited dreams coming. And I think the reason I think that is because of how long it takes for a pearl to become a pearl. Uh-huh. You know, it's like a diamond. It takes like for freaking ever. So it's like that patience taking the time to gain that wisdom. You know what I mean?

Laylla: Yes.

Chelle: And like you said about your shell, I I feel the same with a pearl, resilience. You know, it's it's in this little shell and it's trying to make its way through the ocean. But there's there's definitely that transformation, that resilience. But for me again, like I said, I I I have written down in my book things like that long-awaited dream, you know, the patience paying off. You know, you waited long enough and now is your time.

Laylla: I love that. Yes. Okay, I I accept that. So what's my third charm, man?

Chelle: Your third charm is the pewter teacup.

Laylla: Ooh, I love tea.

Chelle: Isn't that great? And this typically means self-care. It's having that warm cup of tea at night. It can mean divination.

Laylla: I love it.

Chelle: So it changes a little bit depending on who it is. And so for you, this means not just taking time to take care of yourself, but being in a good space physically and mentally to take care of yourself. Being in a good magical space. Like, this is sipping magical tea and then reading your tea leaves afterwards. And feeling very good and confident and happy with it. Like how you feel when you have a good cup of tea, you know?

Laylla: But I also take it as taking the time away from the the hubbub of life to have that cup of tea, to do that work.

Chelle: Yes, to do that self-care, to do that magical work, both of those things. Physical, mental, take care of yourself. So all of these here are telling me, you know, the three of them together tells me that you need to kind of draw out some space for yourself. Take time for yourself and then actually go within for rewards in May around Beltane, that things are really going to start to look up for you after you do this magical shadow internal work. You know, after you draw those boundaries, May is really going to be your blossoming time.

Laylla: Really? Cuz that's when I turn the big five-o. Blah. I think with yours, you know, with with the little acorn hat, um, and the key and the pearl, it's kind of that sense of unlocking potential. Like your potential has always been on the brink. Your potential has been on the brink since the day I met you 30-freaking years ago.

Chelle: That's not a good thing.

Laylla: But it's it's unlocking it and and almost coming to terms coming to terms with who you really are. Shedding off that shell, like the pearl sheds the shell and becomes this magnificent thing that is very highly coveted. It's almost like you need to unlock the door to remind yourself that, especially me, you are highly coveted in my eyes. And I think sometimes you need to to highly covet yourself.

Chelle: Oh, damn. Good point. But why you got to call me out like that?

Laylla: I think that's where the acorn comes in. You need to wear the hat. I call it an acorn hat. You need to wear that hat of your potential.

Chelle: I prefer to call it a crown. Thank you.

Laylla: Okay, you need to wear the acorn crown of your potential.

Chelle: That's right. My acorn crown of potential. Absolutely. And you need to sip the tea of serenity and self-care.

Laylla: Well, right now I'm sipping New York State apple cider.

Chelle: That's almost as good, I think.

Laylla: It is. It is. All right. Well, with that being said, I think our little witches' New Year's divination session has come to a very interesting conclusion.

Chelle: I hope we have inspired you all to go collect shiny shit.

Laylla: Yeah, and try some divination for yourself on this Samhain. Cleanse your set, charge it, get ready for the dark half of the year. Get ready to go within.

Chelle: The same with with any, not just charms, but, you know, cleanse your tarot decks, um, cleanse your Ouija boards, you know, whatever you're using, your pendulum set, um, whatever whatever divination tools you use, um, wipe the slate clean for the new year.

Laylla: Get ready for the real dark of the dark half of the year. Or if you're lucky enough to uh be in the Southern Hemisphere, congrats on the longer days, you jerks. No. I just want to vote for dark half of the year, but the weather's warm.

Chelle: No, I can't. Sorry. I can't get into it. It's too dark too early. No. You can take the girl out of California, but I I still miss that California sun. So. All right. Well, thank you all so much for joining us on Back on the Broomstick. We hope you are inspired to get some charms. Uh, if you like this show, please leave us a like, a review, some stars. Really helps the show out, and we appreciate the heck out of it.

Laylla: If you become a charm addict, um, get on our Facebook discussion group, Back on the Broomstick Podcast Discussion Group. Tell us your charms, and you know what? Tell us what they mean to you, cuz I'm nosy and just want to know.

Chelle: And show us pictures. We love pictures of shiny things.

Laylla: I actually love pictures of shiny things. It inspires me to go buy stuff. Almost as much as we love old books and tarot decks, right? Check us out on our socials, and we will see you next week. Stay wise, stay wicked.

Chelle: And keep it witchy.
