Welcome to Back on the Broomstick, a modern witches' spoken word grimoire, where two witchy friends from way back are reconnecting to their pagan roots after a long period of mundanity. We're rewalking the path of the wise and trying out all the latest spells, rituals, and magical theory in today's witchcraft and pagan practices. So grab your wand and your incense, your cauldron and your crystals, and join us as we get back on the broomstick.

Laylla: Hi, and welcome to Back on the Broomstick. And there is certainly some shit going down. I'm Laylla.

Chelle: And I'm Chelle. And what the holy hell is going on right now?

Laylla: This was going to be an episode about gratitude magic, but we are also in America, and like the curse says, we live in interesting times.

Chelle: Fuck yeah, we do. Actually, there was some listeners that reached out and were seeking some advice. So we kind of switched gears. We decided to change our topic for tonight. And yeah, yeah, yeah.

Laylla: There's a lot of pain and grief going on right now. You know, it's November, it's the dark half of the year, and normally, November in America is like we're worried about how to buy enough groceries in order to get a cheap turkey. We're worried about when is it acceptable to put up my holiday lights. And when I go to Thanksgiving dinner, how do I avoid hugs from that uncle? That's normally what we're worried about on Thanksgiving.

Chelle: And I'm also worried about what time I should stop eating on Wednesday so that I can eat myself fat as you don't even know how fat on Thursday.

Laylla: Yeah, but as we all know, family squabbles are not the only thing to be grieving this time of year. There's a lot of reasons why people might be sad and might be feeling kind of uh not happy, kind of upset.

Chelle: This is a particularly downer November, and and we're going to leave it at that. I do want to put a couple things out there before we continue. One, Laylla and I try to stay away from the political spectrum. We're going to continue to do that. And two, we are not psychologists, we are not social workers, we are just two best friends chatting. So this is not any sort of, I don't know what you want to say, professional advice, professional opinions. This is just us, guys. So take it for what it's worth, please.

Laylla: Right now, people aren't feeling particularly grateful. It feels like there's fuckery afoot. You might be feeling despondent, you might be feeling kind of murdery, you might be feeling both.

Chelle: Which is totally unaligned with freaking Thanksgiving and Turkey Day. I know people like to go right from Halloween to Christmas. I feel you, I love decorations, I love ornaments, but we can't skip over the time of being thankful. And we're far from that this year, I think.

Laylla: People are feeling grief and they're going to have a hard time maybe getting together, you know, to celebrate joy and thanksgiving if if you're not feeling that.

Chelle: Or again, same thing with Yule, Christmas, Hanukkah, whatever your family sucks you into. You know, that's right on the heels, and we've we've got a lot of family stuff coming.

Laylla: Yeah, and in our culture, American culture does not deal well with grief. We don't deal well with death, with grief, with big emotions. We basically tell people to shove it aside, ignore it, get back to work, stop crying.

Chelle: My mother used to have a saying, and it sums up what exactly you're saying, and it's, "Suck it up, buttercup." And you know, sometimes it just hurts too much to suck it up.

Laylla: Yeah, sometimes. That's something um Irene Glass is one of our favorite heathens. She's We love her. Absolutely love. And she is she's a heathen, she's a pagan, and she's been a UU minister for like decades. When she talks about grief and things like that that she has to deal with as a member of the clergy, she says that one of the things you should not do is called spiritual bypassing. And basically, that's when you're confronted with like a big emotion, like grief is, it's one of the biggest, you know, saying something like, "Suck it up, buttercup," or "Just get over it," or "Everything happens for a reason," is Fuck that. Right, it's basically trying to just tell you to get over it and bypass the hard work by giving you some sort of catchphrase or, you know, like spiritual pablum or whatever. And screw that, that's not what you need or what you want to hear.

Chelle: But in the same respect, you know, the reason we work is because we are sometimes vastly different. And you, I describe you to other people as sweetness and happiness and love.

Laylla: Do you really?

Chelle: I do. And you know, I'm kind of the backhanded, get your ass in gear kind of person. And you know, I I feel that it is a very difficult time right now, and there is a lot of reason to feel that sorrow. The dumpster fire has only begun. But this isn't the time to curl up in your bed and, you know, cry for days on end and and not shower because you're so depressed. I get it. I get it. But my mentality's more like the warrior woman, you know, like I have never been one to stand by and shut up. I am a arguer, a bitcher, a fighter, whatever you want to call it, but it it's time for warrior mode, I feel like. Don't give in to the sadness, use it to fuel yourself to I don't want to use the catchphrase, "Create the change you want to make," but sitting back idly is not the way to go in my opinion. It's it's it's time to stand up, and I know we've talked in the past about Byron Ballard's tower times theory, and if there isn't more of a tower time right now, there never will be. And it's it's it's time to be strong and be that warrior. I think that that's the best way to go, at least for me and my personality.

Laylla: Psychologically speaking, there's five stages of grief, right? There's anger, denial, bargaining, depression, acceptance. You go through those different stages at some point. And I think I went through every single one of them like I was speedrunning my personal trauma at about 3:00 a.m. the other day, right when we all got that wonderful news. And I think what you're saying is you have come to a place of acceptance, you know, you've gone through all of that and you're ready to start the fight anew. Wherever you're at in that process, you kind of have to honor it because when it comes to big emotions, whatever is triggering your grief, whatever is triggering these feelings, you have to feel them. There's no shortcut here. The only way out is through. You have to go through all of these stages.

Chelle: I think the most important thing about that, though, is that there ain't no time clock on this, either. Right. I just process things a little faster than than a lot of people, and I go from The anger stage for you is one that's really easy. You know, I can do that shit in like a hot second. And you know, I I think that remembering that just because it took me a few days to get to time to fuck shit up kind of stage doesn't mean that you might still be in that first stage or that second stage, and and you could be there for a while, and that's okay. And you know, this isn't just applicable to what's going on right now. You know, you could say this about divorce, you could say this about a death of a loved one. There's lots of reasons to grieve. There's just a collective grief going on right now.

Laylla: And once you get through those stages of grief, wherever you land on that, that's when you have to kind of decide, where do I want to go from here? For Chelle, she's decided she's rising up, she's being that warrior goddess. For me, it it looks a little bit different because I am nice. I'm the laid-back friend who smokes copious amounts of weed with you in the sunny kitchen while baking cookies and discussing what kind of hexes will most fuck up your shitty ex.

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: I'm the auntie who will dry your tears about the state of the world, read your tarot cards, and then we make signs, put on our riot gear, and go protest the fucking patriarchy.

Chelle: Absolutely.

Laylla: I am nice, but I am not afraid or complacent. And what I have is my voice, my ability to speak up for those who can't or for those who are too afraid. You and I have never backed down from saying we are witches, and I'm not about to fucking start now, come what may. So I'm not going to back down. I am no longer going to be silent. I am going to be the loud, out, active witch that I am, even more so now because I think some people won't be able to.

Chelle: This this was reminiscent, and obviously to a lesser scale, but without naming the evil empire, remember that place we used to work together about 25 years ago?

Laylla: Mhm.

Chelle: And remember when we were suggested to not wear our pentacles?

Laylla: Yes.

Chelle: And we were like, "Fuck you, what?" Exactly. And you know, I was reminded of that this week, and I was like, you know, first of all, to have to go back to that is just some bullshit. And second of all, I didn't sit and be quiet then, so I don't see me sitting and being quiet now. Exactly.

Laylla: And I think that those of us that have that privilege, I am a white, middle-aged, middle-class lady. I am going to be as loud and obnoxious as I possibly can as a shield for those that can't. Right. But what I'm saying is like, you're taking up a sword, I'm taking up a shield, we're both going to be loud and obnoxious because that's who we are. Other people might work in different ways. Some people might need to go back in the broom closet. Some people might need to go back in the fucking closet. You know, there's all different ways that people are going to need to protect themselves and to protect Are you trying to circle me back to the rage stage again?

Laylla: I know, I know. I know. But yeah, I mean, whether we're talking about the political climate or whether we're talking about other forms of grief, whether it's it's for really bad news, the death of a loved one, the loss of a pet, a big move, stress, whatever is causing you grief, you kind of have to go through these processes. And magic, being a witch, can help you work through these things. You know, we we transform energy, we transform emotion. You can take these raw emotions, your grief, your anger, your rage, your fear, and channel that into your magic, make it more powerful, and help you work through those at the same time.

Chelle: Now, I hear you might have a suggestion, maybe a little spell or two or a ritual to maybe lead people down this path. So why don't we why don't we give people a mental break for a second, and let's talk about that. So what's the spell you got going on?

Laylla: All right, well, I do have a spell, and particularly because we are in the dark half of the year, and, you know, we're in the dark crisis of the soul at the moment, it feels like.

Chelle: And honestly, it's getting freaking dark at like 4:30. What the heck?

Laylla: I know, I hate it so much. I know you say, Chelle, I know you say you like the fall back so you get that hour of sleep, but damn, this dark is killing me.

Chelle: I want the sleep with the daylight.

Laylla: There you go. I want I want 25 hours in a day, and I want it to be light until about 8:00 p.m. Thank you.

Chelle: Well, I figured since we're all getting what we want, you know.

Laylla: There you go, we might as well ask for these too, what the hell. All right, so my spell involves candlelight because what better in the dark half of the year than candlelight?

Chelle: Probably the one time I use candles the most.

Laylla: Exactly. It also magically signifies the growing of light, the growing of hope, emerging from that darkness. So candles are very magical for a lot of different reasons, but they particularly help in this spell for that. So take one or preferably one for every room or several for every room, candles, like the big pillar kind are the best.

Chelle: But please please, you need to perform fire safety while doing this. I have to put that in there.

Laylla: That's right, please be safe. Our firebug is telling you to be safe.

Chelle: I am my father's child.

Laylla: That's right. So what I want you to do is to take all these candles and create an oil, a protection oil. It's protect my peace oil.

Chelle: Ooh, I love oils.

Laylla: Right, me too. So you can take like a jojoba oil, hemp oil, or just take a little olive oil out of your kitchen, it doesn't really matter.

Chelle: You know what I really like is I like grapeseed oil, and you can get it at any grocery store, and it's really not much more than olive oil, but it's it's different. I think that's why I like it.

Laylla: It's a nice consistency, and it doesn't really have a very heavy smell. I like it for those reasons, it's good for that. So the base oil is for grounding and protection, right? No matter what oil you take, oil itself is going to have that earthy, grounding, protecting Does it matter how much you use? I wouldn't use too much. I mean, if you're going to have a lot of candles, you're going to want to maybe use a quarter of a cup. If you're just using like one candle, maybe a teaspoon, it doesn't have to be a lot. It just depends on you just want enough to wipe each candle a little bit.

Chelle: I gotcha.

Laylla: So we'll say you're using like three candles, so maybe just like a tablespoon of oil, and a few drops or just a pinch of lavender, and that's for peace and harmony. Frankincense for spiritual strength and for justice. Rosemary for clarity and courage. A little bit of cinnamon for strength and protection, and again, these can be the herbs or oil, whichever you prefer. And then I like to take a bay leaf and crumble it up and add that to it. And maybe a little bit of clove. The bay leaf is for protection and wisdom, and the clove is also for protection and for vanishing negativity. So you're going to add these herbs or oils to your carrier oil, and you're going to think of the intention of creating a safe place for your grief. You're creating a safe place for you, and you're creating a safe place to feel all your emotions, to be able to work through all of those stages of grief. So you're basically trying to create a sanctuary for yourself. And you're going to anoint each of your candles with this oil, and you're going to anoint it from the wick to the base because you're drawing in that protection to your space. You can even write on each candle if you want to write a couple words, or if you want to carve a sigil for protection or safety in your home. Then you're going to place them around your house and take either like a little bit of bark, like Chelle and I have talked about, a little bit of birch bark, or a bay leaf, or a small piece of paper, and on them, take one for each candle, and on them, you're going to write words or phrases or sigils that you've created depending on what your purpose is. If if you're trying to work through grief because of loss of a loved one, you're going to write things like remembrance, peace, connection, Memories. memories, serenity, things like that. If it's because of the current political climate here in the US, it could be justice, it could be safety, Security. it could be security, yeah, things like that. And then place those underneath each candle. And then every day, once a day, preferably around the same time, doesn't have to be, light each candle, and when you light those candles, picture the glow of that light pulling in all those good feelings, all that protection, that safety, that serenity, whatever it is that you put under each candle. You can say an affirmation or repeat an intention, make it the same thing every day, something like, "I am part of a powerful community. I am healing with grace and with serenity. I am strong, I am safe, I am secure," whatever your affirmation is. You know, write it down so you don't forget, and then say the same thing each time you light a candle. And by repeating that, that helps to fix that phrase, that spell, in your subconscious, in your magical brain, to help the spell work, to help the magic move and work. And that's going to make your home, make your space, a sanctuary. It's going to make it a place where you can freely feel those emotions and work through them and invite justice and protection into your space.

Chelle: Okay, so I got a twist on that.

Laylla: Perfect.

Chelle: I love it, it's lovely.

Laylla: I love your twists. Let me have it.

Chelle: You know I'm a bath person. I love a good bath. Who doesn't love a good freaking bath? Oh yeah. I would like the idea as well, on top of that, to take those candles and set them up in my bathroom, fill myself a sweet ass hot bath, and then put some of that oil in the bath water.

Laylla: Be careful if you use cinnamon oil putting that in the bath, just use a very tiny amount.

Chelle: Oh jeez, that would burn. Yeah, and there's sensitive bits that goes in the bath. Okay, so lay off on the cinnamon for your itty bitties if you're going to use it for a bath. But kind of bring in that that safety, protection, serenity, blah blah blah, into yourself because right now, let's face it, we need that on our person. I need safety and protection on my person, not just in my home, but on, you know, I need to protect my body, damn it.

Laylla: Yes, and I love the bath idea for that.

Chelle: So I like I like the whole protecting the house thing, but I also love a bath element to that. And you know how you said write the things down on the paper and put it under the candle? You could also write them on bay leaves and put it in the bath with you.

Laylla: Oh, yes. And you know, speaking of having things on your body, I'm a huge fan of jewelry and jewelry charms. You could take your jewelry, say your rings or necklace or something something specific, and place that on the rim of the bath or place that next to the candle while you're doing your spell and let that spell charge that jewelry. You know, maybe you're doing it throughout your house, you could designate one of those candles somewhere in your home where you put your jewelry every day to recharge that so that your jewelry now becomes a sanctuary you can carry with you, a safe energy that you can carry with you. And that can be sanctuary for you, or for like me, I'm going to speak up and be loud and have my jewelry be charged to give me the courage to speak out when I see injustices, to to be louder and to be more obnoxious when people do shitty things.

Chelle: You know, that's super funny that you said that because at one point earlier in the last few days, sometimes I do the oil thing. I like oils. I like them on me, I like the smell, blah blah blah blah. So I'm sitting here reminiscing in the shit show that we live in, and I was putting on some oil. Um I was going out and just got out of the bath. And for some reason, I kept tracing I have a triple moon goddess tattoo, and I just kept tracing that and kind of, you know, in that whole bringing that goddess power into me because it's again, for me, it's warrior goddess time.

Laylla: I know some of our siblings, our witchy siblings out there, are going to need to be quieter. So maybe underneath your jewelry, you can take the oil that you have created in ritual space and just, you know, wear it as a perfume. Take a pen, charge that pen with your intention of protection or your intention of justice or serenity and write that word or write a sigil or write runes on your skin and then put your bracelet on over top of it so no one can see it. And now you're protected. Make a triple moon, make a pentacle and do that before you go to work. You know, write it somewhere that'll be covered by your clothing. That can definitely be a good way to do protection as well.

Chelle: You know, I this week has prompted me to want to do and you know, I never do an altar rehash. I just add to it. If I could have a whole room as an altar, trust me, I got enough shit for it, seriously. But this week, I decided to do an altar rehash is kind of a protection, you know, keeping my space and myself and and and all of that in a better place. And you know, we've talked in the past about how I have been a a devotee of Hecate forever and a day. But I've never taken that plunge to actually go out and buy a Hecate statue.

Laylla: You've never found one that seemed perfect for you, I don't think.

Chelle: Well, no, because, you know, a lot of people portray her as like that old crone version, and that's never been my jam. But so this week, I went out around town and I found, by the way, for super cheap, a Hecate statue, bone finish, love it, and I'll post a picture of it. And I feel like I needed that, you know, and I kind of joked with with my sweet love, and I was like, you know, it took me 30 years to get a Hecate statue. No time like the present to have a a visual representation of her, you know? I always have the keys, you know, I always have things that are a part of my altar to represent her, but I've never taken the plunge and actually gotten a statue. And for some damn reason, this was the time. I don't know what made me think of it. I just happened to look online, saw a local store, it was under $50, and I was like, hell yeah. You know, maybe that's also a good idea to kind of bring some of that peace and serenity is do an altar rehash.

Laylla: It's an excellent idea. And Hecate's a good goddess for now, especially in her form of the torchbearer, guiding us through the dark times, guiding us out of the crossroads, guiding us through liminal spaces. And, you know, it's funny that you got a statue. I got a ring. I love seeing the rings that are like on the first joint, like they're not all the way down on your finger, they're like on the first joint. Well, I have a ring that I like on the middle finger of my right hand, and I found another ring specifically to go on the first joint of the middle finger of my right hand, and I have charmed them both to be the fuck you rings.

Chelle: Doesn't that feel weird, though?

Laylla: Not really. You get used to it pretty quickly. But I like having them on my middle finger because it's a good reminder that I don't have to put up with shit. No more being nice to get along. I don't have to put up with anything. So, by having these rings charmed magically and on my finger, like you said, maybe I can feel it a little bit differently. It's a good reminder because I'm not used to wearing a ring there. So, it's a good reminder to flip people off if they fucking need it. So, that has been my big thing. I bought a ring to go there to specifically remind me to flip people off if they deserve it.

Chelle: You know, I think we're all going to find our own things that'll bring us some sort of peace and solace for the time being. Mhm. But, you know, it's just ironic that this is the dark time of the year, kind of the go within, figure out what you're going to do. You know, we really need to figure out what we're going to do as a people.

Laylla: Yeah. It is the dark time of year for the Northern Hemisphere, for America. But whatever the dark is to you, whatever the coming dark is to you, whatever that depression, this is the time of year when it's good for self-care, to go within, take care of yourself, build that base, take stock. You have a little bit of time before January, before spring. Now's the time to prepare.

Chelle: And I think that was part of my altar rehash because I had a a brief moment of panic about what if I can't buy this shit after January? Like, but what if what we do is not as tolerated as it's been, and what if these types of things are harder to get? And that kind of sparked a little shopping spree on my end.

Laylla: Understandable. I am trying to spend as little as possible.

Chelle: We are so opposite.

Laylla: Yeah. Well, no, I am stocking up. I am preparing. I am definitely trying to make sure that we are safe, that we are prepared. I'm looking into places to donate my time, places that I can go and help. My mother started going to the UU church again in her community because she feels so disappointed and so called to be with other people that she can help, that she can work with, that they can go into the community and affect change. When that shit was happening in the South with the floods, the pagans, you mentioned Byron Ballard and the the Mother Grove Temple and all the different pagans and witches that stepped up to help and are still helping because those people are still, you know, they're having such a hard time and people are still helping, and that's what we have to do. And if you can't give time, maybe you can give money. If you can't give money, maybe you can amplify them on social media. Maybe you can tell people about them, talk about them, get them, you know, traffic. There's something that we can all do to feel like we're helping in some way.

Chelle: And, you know, speaking of social media, we're all on Facebook groups. Let's face it here. We're all seeing all the posts, and we're seeing all all of the sadness. If you can't do anything else, you know, listen to someone, reach out, talk them through it, you know, make a friend. Let's just make friends. Now is the time for solidarity. We need to be there for each other.

Laylla: And people like Chelle and I that can be loud, that can be out in the open, need to do so, need to remain so.

Chelle: We need to fight for the people who can't fight for themselves.

Laylla: Exactly. This is the dark half of the year. We only have so much time. So, we need to take care of each other, take care of ourselves, and magically, we need to keep pushing forward. We need to keep trying to transform that energy. Whether it's grief, rage, sadness, acceptance, wherever you're at, we're witches, we transform, and that's what we need to push that towards is the idea of coming out of the dark times.

Chelle: We will always be the phoenixes rising from the fire.

Laylla: I certainly hope so. And in the meantime, I also have a ritual for you, Chelle, a dark moon. This is to be done on every dark moon.

Chelle: Now, are you just talking just right now, or could we do this 12 months a year?

Laylla: You could do this 12 months a year. This is cumulative. This is for anyone who's experiencing negative emotions of any kind. This is to help you channel those energies towards your better good, towards justice, towards healing from grief. Whether you're feeling political fallout, whether you're feeling grief for a loss of a relationship, a loved one, a job, whatever, this is something that can help you transform that energy.

Chelle: I like it already.

Laylla: All right. So, dark moon. Do you remember Circle of Amara? We used to meet on the dark moon.

Chelle: We did. That was our thing, and and I always I always was more partial to the dark moon because of Hecate.

Laylla: And dark moon is a transformative time. It's an introspective time, and we met on the dark moon because it was all about that inner time, that inner knowledge, self-reflection. And this ritual kind of calls upon that as well. The idea is to reflect and sit with that emotion, whatever it is, and to call upon a deity that will help you work through that emotion.

Chelle: Because if you don't work through it, you're not going to get past it.

Laylla: Exactly. So, basically, dark moon, and that can be anytime, the day before, day of, day after of the dark moon.

Chelle: Let's be honest, if the dark moon is on a Tuesday or Wednesday, we're still doing that shit on a Saturday night, not going to lie.

Laylla: Quite possible, yeah. So, the idea is to think of it as a time of reflection, that that final clearing of the slate before you start to build up your manifestation, your goals. So, take a candle and a reflective surface, like a black mirror or a a shallow dark plate that maybe has water in it. You need a paper and a pen, and you're going to cast your circle, get into sacred space, however you choose to do that, and light your candle so that it reflects on the water. Sit there, feel your emotions. You're going to allow yourself to really amplify those emotions as you look at the reflection in the dark water. The dark goddess is looking back at you, basically, is the idea. So, sit with that for a little while. Call upon a deity. I have three suggestions here, three goddesses for three different purposes.

Chelle: Ooh.

Laylla: First one is Seshat, an Egyptian goddess. I've talked about her before in my workshop about smokeable spells because she is the Egyptian goddess of, among other things, cannabis, but also of funeral rites, of writing, and of paper. And so she is someone who can help you work through grief if you're dealing with grief. You could also call upon Hestia, who's a Greek goddess of family and political community, if you want to work through needing to call community to you or wanting to help heal a broken community. And then my favorite is another Greek goddess, and this is Nemesis. Nemesis is the goddess of retribution, of balancing the scales of justice. Nemesis punishes those who are guilty of too much pride in the face of the gods, people who are guilty of arrogance and vanity. And I'll link to a place that talks some great things about Nemesis, but they say, quote, "She is the goddess of indignation against and retribution for evil deeds and undeserved good fortune. She is the personification of the resentment caused by those who committed crimes with impunity."

Chelle: Doesn't that kind of encompass karma?

Laylla: Yeah, the Western idea of karma, sure. Yeah, yes. She meets out justice for those who are too arrogant and who have gotten away with things that they shouldn't get away with.

Chelle: Are we really going to all become Nemesis followers?

Laylla: I certainly fucking hope so. So, call Nemesis if you need that, but call upon these deities, and you can chant their name three times or nine times. You can just say that you call upon them, you ask their presence. I usually summon in land spirits and elementals, and I request deities. Well, yeah. So, call them in, ask them to be with you in your right, and basically just ask that they help you through these emotions. And then sit with that, and then when you feel moved to do so, start writing. Whether you're writing your feelings, your emotions, whether you're automatic writing, whether you're just writing the name of the deity over and over again, whether you're just writing "fuck you" over and over again or "I'm hurt" or whatever it is, write it down. Give yourself a good three to seven minutes to just write. And then when you're done, keep the paper, put out the candle, and let that energy go, and let that go to the goddess. Let that out to the goddess, and let her take that and transform it to take your energy to the universe and help you through those emotions and to use that energy to help you find justice, healing, or balance.

Chelle: I love that. I love that.

Laylla: Yeah. And repeat that every dark moon. Do it on all three days of the dark moon if you want to. The important thing to remember is to make it a regular practice. And really just give yourself permission to write anything, anything that comes up.

Chelle: And that could be that could be useful in a lot of different situations.

Laylla: And basically, it's the idea of calling deity to you, sitting with the deity and with that emotion, giving them that emotion, but through the power of writing that emotion out, you're basically giving it to the deity and asking them to help transform that for the good of yourself and for the good of your community or your family or whoever needs it, whoever's the focus of your spell.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: Oh, another magical thing. We've talked about shower spells before. I still really like a shower spell. I have a couple different soaps that I like to use before I use my good luxurious, you know, silky soaps. One is like a it has peppermint in it. It's a cleansing soap, and I got it from Witches Moon, which is a subscription box company, and I absolutely fucking-lutely love them. So, I have this soap in my shower, and I use that before I take my regular shower to magically cleanse myself in the shower. You ever do that?

Chelle: I have, maybe not exactly the same way, but

Laylla: And I've started taking other types of, you know, you can get all those funky flavored soaps, right?

Chelle: I love Bath & Body Works, not going to lie.

Laylla: Right. I like going to the farmers market and getting like the handmade ones that have like the big chunky herbs and shit in them. Oh my god.

Chelle: Oh my god, I love that.

Laylla: Right. I love those. So, I will look for ones that have herbs that match with my spell intentions. I have a couple different types of fancy soaps. My husband is going to kill me, I swear. He thinks they're ugly. But so I have a couple different kinds, and I'll use them for different things. And lately, I've been using soap that has like say, uh, what is this one, sage and rosemary in it, and it it basically is very good for protection. And so sometimes I feel like lately I need a little bit of an extra shield because, you know, I'm out there being less quiet now. So, I'll use that in my shower. And a shower time with a fancy soap is a really easy, fast way to do a cleansing, a protection, a quick little spell in your shower before you start your day.

Chelle: And, you know, sometimes doing a little something like that to start your day sets the mood, and if you go into the day feeling a little bit better, it kind of helps.

Laylla: I agree. I found I've been smoking a lot more weed, to be honest.

Chelle: Well, yeah. Me too.

Laylla: Me too. So, I've been trying to use it intentionally. I'll throw in a little mullein for grounding. I'll put in a little bit of, um, clove. I like clove a lot. Not only does it smell great and taste great when you smoke it, but it's really good for banishing negativity. And I'm pretty much in my middle finger era, I guess. So, I feel sometimes like smoking a smoking a bowl with a little bit of mullein and a little bit of clove and a little bit of cannabis is almost like my fuck you to the establishment while also sending out that protection and that grounding. Um, and the cannabis helps with, you know, mood regulation and calming. So, you know, if I'm getting a little cranky, I'll smoke that a little bit and focus on feeling a little more grounded, feeling a little more secure in my space.

Chelle: Yeah, I definitely need my mood a little lessened this week.

Laylla: Right. Don't we all? So, counseling is definitely helpful, but writing, journaling through your emotions, writing through it can help you to regulate them. And then it's proven that volunteering, finding some form of action can also help you work through feelings of grief and helplessness, of feeling isolated, feeling scared. These are all things that that can help you feel less worried and also move forward and help to find a solution to it, whatever the cause of your worry, your fear, or your grief is. These are things that can help you.

Chelle: Like Laylla and I stated, we are not mental health providers or anything of the like, but a couple things I do want to put out there. The National Suicide Prevention Hotline, if you need that, is 1-800-273-TALK. Um, you can text it, 741741. There's also the Trevor Project. There's Trans Lifeline, 1-877-565-8860. If you need someone to talk to, reach out to these folks. Reach out to whoever it is you want to reach out to. Laylla and I are here for you, but again, we are we are not counselors, we're not therapists. But if you need help, please seek it out. And we love you all, each and every one of you.

Laylla: We really do. We really do. You guys are amazing, and whatever you're going through right now, there are people out there that can help. Chelle gave you the numbers. We're here, friends, family, UU, you know, we're all in this together.

Chelle: You are not alone.

Laylla: And we're going to continue to be loud, no matter what happens. Hey, it could could be could be great. Things are think I'm not going to go with that. Toxic positivity is also a problem, so let's not try and say that it's going to be better when we don't know for sure. So, we're not even going to go with we're not going to do that either.

Chelle: So, you know, everybody, we want to we want to wrap up and say thank you for joining us tonight, and stay strong, fight the good fight, and if you can't, that's okay. We got your back. We'll we'll be loud and proud for you if you can't. And to our friends that are outside of America, I'm sorry we're dumb. That's all I can say. I'm sorry. Don't pick on us too much.

Laylla: I don't know. Maybe we need a good swift kick in the ass. It's more than a little sad. Anyway. Yeah.

Chelle: You know, I think it's a good time to go take an oil bath for protection. What do you think?

Laylla: There you go. Actually, I'm going to go smoke a fuck you joint to the establishment and charge some jewelry so that I can not be a cranky bitch. I don't know. For calming and relaxing in the face of all this mounting bullshit.

Chelle: You know, I do have one thing I want to announce to our listeners that is not debby downer news. Laylla and I did a thing this week.

Laylla: We did.

Chelle: We did. We actually went out and got a PO box, guys. Woohoo! So, we've had a bunch of people ask us how they can mail us stuff. We don't know what you want to mail us, but apparently, you want to mail us stuff. We are now findable at the post office. So, if you have a letter, a picture, or whatever the heck it is you put in mail, feel free to send it to Back on the Broomstick, PO Box 106, Salem, Massachusetts, 01970.

Laylla: We will do regularly a mailbox

Chelle: Unboxing.

Laylla: unboxing, and we will read the letters, cards, stickers, whatever you send us, we will talk about it on air.

Chelle: Honestly, I want letters. Write me letters, people. Write me letters and mail them like we used to when we were kids. That would be a lot of fun. Postcards. Send us a postcard. Those are cheap. You can pop a postcard in the mail. That would be Laylla is going to post our PO box in the show notes, as well as our socials, our email. You guys know where to find us. Back on the Broomstick everywhere you go.

Laylla: So, give us some like, some stars, tell a friend, help keep us on the air. Take care of yourselves, and if you can, take care of each other.

Chelle: Fight the good fight, people.

Laylla: Be wise, be wicked.

Chelle: And keep it witchy for the love of all things holy.

I do not have access to the audio files or pre-existing verbatim transcripts for this specific episode of *Back on the Broomstick* ("89: Navigating Grief"), and I am unable to browse the live internet to listen to and transcribe it for you. 

To listen to the episode or find official transcripts, you can check major podcast platforms (such as Spotify, Apple Podcasts, or Google Podcasts) or visit the official website of *Back on the Broomstick*.
