Laylla: Welcome to Back on the Broomstick, a modern witches' spoken word grimoire, where two witchy friends from way back are reconnecting to their pagan roots after a long period of mundanity.

Chelle: We're rewalking the path of the wise and trying out all the latest spells, rituals, and magical theory in today's witchcraft and pagan practices.

Laylla: So grab your wand and your incense, your cauldron and your crystals, and join us as we get back on the broomstick.

Laylla: Hi, and welcome to Back on the Broomstick. I'm Laylla, and on this episode, we'll be talking about gratitude magic and how to survive the holiday spells.

Chelle: And I'm Chelle, and boy do I need this because, you know, this year is a little nutty to begin with, but let's face it. And and Laylla, you know my family. This is a trying time every year. You got to get together with these people, you know, like like I love these people. I have deep love for these people. But wow, sometimes by the end of the day, I am done. I am done.

Laylla: November in the United States brings us Thanksgiving. And we're not going to get into the problematic origins of the holiday in this episode. But, you know, it also brings Friendsgiving events and a lot of family and getting together with coworkers and relatives and people that we love.

Chelle: Let's not lie. I'm looking forward to getting fat, okay? I just want to eat my face off. Eat my face off.

Laylla: The carbs, the gravy, it's just sheer heaven.

Chelle: Pie. Pie. Let's talk pie.

Laylla: Oh, pie. So many different kinds of pie. My mother sets a whole day aside to bake pies before Thanksgiving. I love it.

Chelle: I'm going to throw you under the bus here in front of all of our listeners. And a little a little fun fact about Laylla and her life. And I always found this a little weird about you when I first met you like 30 years ago, but as I got older, I totally got it. Your family actually treats Thanksgiving as the major holiday of the year.

Laylla: Yes.

Chelle: Here in North America, whether you are Christian or not, pretty much Christmas is the big boom of the year. We all we all do our Christmas thing with our families. But for you, that Christmas never really meant anything to your family, and Thanksgiving was like that's your jam for your family. That's like your your your big gig.

Laylla: It is. You are absolutely correct. You know me very well.

Chelle: How stressful.

Laylla: It is. It is. But it it's a little less We have two Thanksgivings, which sounds even more stressful. But it's usually about the third Saturday in the month, my mother will have a big Thanksgiving at her house. And everybody's invited, the entire family, entire extended family. You know, that big you have to have three big tables because there's 35, 40 people there.

Chelle: Oh, I remember that. I remember those days.

Laylla: It's that kind of Thanksgiving that she likes to have, and there's a bunch of traditions involved. But she likes to have that as her big holiday. And there's a lot of Christians that go, you know, and there's people from every side of the political spectrum, and we usually try to leave all of that at the door. But it can get a little It can get a little nutty, and it can get a little stressful. And I'm sure a lot of people around the country, even if you don't do it quite as big as my mother does and make like a whole two-week celebration out of it, you know, it can still be stressful.

Chelle: You know, I've I've transitioned to a new phase in my life, and I'm very pleased with it. I live in a different state as my father, and I also live in yet a different state as my mother. You know, we've talked about my mother spends spends the winters down south. So I am now the center of Thanksgiving. My children My children come to me. My sweet little grandbaby comes to me, and I set the tone for Thanksgiving now. You know, it is not any of the stuff that is stressful anymore because my kids know, you know, you you you only go so far with Mommy. We don't talk about certain things at at dinner, and we're all here to love each other, and I don't want to hear your shit. You fight later. You fight later because right now, we're all together, and I don't want to hear it. And, you know, I do like that. But I also know that on the heels of Thanksgiving is the Christmas season, the Yule season, the Hanukkah season, and man, I can't run from it then.

Laylla: This time of year in the United States, people go out to dinner at someone's house or make dinner at their own house. They have a big feast. There's also a lot of holidays that come up in December. There's Hanukkah and Kwanzaa. There's Yule and Christmas. There's so many different holidays going on right now. So that means there's a lot of family get-togethers going on right now. So this episode is going to be how do you keep that spirit of being thankful and being grateful alive when you have to deal with family and stressful situations that try and steal your joy? How can we magically as witches transform that energy? How do we protect our peace and bring joy into the holidays?

Chelle: And let's be thankful.

Laylla: We're talking about abundance and celebrating all the good things in our lives with our families and all the things that we have. How can you keep that alive in your heart as a witch when everything is crazy and stressful and there's family everywhere?

Chelle: I I I need to stop you. I need to interrupt you for a second because I got a really great message, a reply to a comment on one of our I don't even It might have been our Facebook discussion group, I think. I had a listener who who said that they were apprehensive about the upcoming holiday because you know how Thanksgiving is. Everybody wants to know what you want for whatever you celebrate, Christmas, Yule, Hanukkah. They're like, "What do you want for Christmas? I need to know by Thanksgiving." And, you know, this listener is kind of struggling with with parents on a different side of the spectrum than they are. Um, we all get it. We're all feeling that wrath right now. And and the question was, "What if I want something witchy for the holidays, but my parents are kind of Christian Maga, you know?" And here's my response. So for all you folks out there that, A, don't know what to get your family members who have pissed you off this holiday season, and, B, don't know what to ask for so that you actually kind of get what you want, but they're not thinking you're like some spawn of Satan, get your parents pajamas. Leave it at that. And I've gotten I've started having this fascination with wooden stuff, wooden bowls. I guess it was technically made to be a wooden wooden cutting board, not what I'm going to use it for. Ask for wooden, quote, unquote, "kitchenware" that you will absolutely not use for kitchenware.

Laylla: Oh, I like it.

Chelle: Your parents will think they're buying you wooden salad bowls, but you're not using them for salad bowls.

Laylla: Okay. I'm going to go on this tangent with you because I'm excited. I love this. You can also ask for bundles of candles. Ask for just regular small tapers. Ask for a bag of emergency tea lights.

Chelle: Oh my god. A freaking spice rack. Ask for a spice rack and then use it to make loose incense and teas.

Laylla: I love that. Ask for teas. Ask for a beautiful mug. Look for, um, cast iron. Look for a small cast iron pot. It doesn't have to look like a cauldron to be a cauldron. It could just be a small cast iron pot.

Chelle: Or ask for a gift card to HomeGoods.

Laylla: Mortar and pestle. Mm.

Chelle: You can get a lot of altar stuff at HomeGoods.

Laylla: Okay. Now, a lot of you know that I am kind of a nomad. I move a lot. One of the things I do when I first moved in with the love of my life that Chelle introduced me to,

Chelle: I remember that day.

Laylla: our very first house together, my sister-in-law brought us a black marble mortar and pestle, and I love it. This was 25-plus years ago, and that's one of the few things that I have carried to every single house with us.

Chelle: House to house. State to state to state.

Laylla: Once that mortar and pestle is in my kitchen, I feel like I'm home. And I use it all the time, not just for magical things, but for mundane kitchen things as well. So ask for a really nice mortar and pestle.

Chelle: So that's that's my holiday tip for all of you that are being trapped for having to produce a gift list on this upcoming Thanksgiving season.

Laylla: Yeah. Just ask for some of the supplies that are a little less obvious, I think.

Chelle: I call them, quote, unquote, "kitchenware."

Laylla: Or find your local bookshop and ask for a gift card to that bookshop and then buy yourself tarot cards and books galore.

Chelle: Right. Right.

Laylla: Now, I have a couple ideas to help keep the peace in your house if you're going to be hosting. Here's a couple things that you could do. And the first one comes from Lilith Dorsey, whom I adore.

Chelle: Love her.

Laylla: Fantastic person. Now, this is called the Sweet Not Sour Lemon Magic Spell. And I love it because it's super simple. So you slice up a lemon, and for every guest, you take one slice, pin it, you know, just take a little tack or something or some tape, whatever you've got, and stick it under their chair at the table. And what that does is the lemon will soak up all the negativity. It's going to like cut that negativity right through, just like the acidity of the lemon. Any sourness, any nasty attitudes, the lemons are going to soak up. And then after dinner, take all those lemons and put them outside, either to compost under a tree or some place under the dirt, or just throw them away. But that way, you can dispose of all that negativity outside. But just like kind of lemon-scented cleaners or like cleaners with lemon in it help to wipe away the dirt better, this is going to help you to clean up all that psychic dirt, all that psychic negativity.

Chelle: Is that going to keep my adult children from arguing like four-year-olds at the dinner table?

Laylla: Absolutely. Simple yet effective. If you put it down there with intention, you're going to have the happiest feast ever. Of course, liberal applications of mundane with your magical are the best way to go about these things. So make sure to keep everybody occupied, keep the food going, and, of course, my all-time favorite, responsibly keep the cannabis flowing. Never hurt.

Chelle: Okay. Okay.

Laylla: Make yourself a little smokable spell joint beforehand to share. Throw a little mugwort in there, a little lavender, a little rose petal, and everyone will be in such a good mood, no one will be able to bitch.

Chelle: No. One thing that we do, and it's just because I don't know why we do this. There's no rhyme or reason to it. But we all end up doing everything. You know, my my sweet love will be peeling potatoes. My daughter is the apple pie maker. My son will sit there on his phone watching all of us complaining that we're not doing things right. And I am the supervisor.

Laylla: Oh, no. Wait. So he's the assistant manager. Is that it then?

Chelle: He's the assistant manager, but yet I didn't hire him. Okay? So, you know, we'll be doing stuff, and then I just want everybody to stop bickering because my my my adult children literally bicker like they're four because my daughter feels that he doesn't do enough. So I make them all tea. And I think tea is also a good kind of bring it in for everybody because not everybody in your family is as witchy as you are.

Laylla: True. Very good point. And not everyone is a cannabis smoker, nor is it good for everyone, even though I might want it to be.

Chelle: Right. You know, and and you got to find a common ground without maybe being totally over about it. But you can make a different a different blend of tea as opposed to say using a tea bag. You know, make a a calming, peaceful tea and make everybody drink it.

Laylla: Here's a tip. Chamomile is very mild. You can throw a handful of that in every single tea bag. Like just toss it in everyone's favorite tea, whether they know it or not.

Chelle: How's that going to How's that going to mix with the What's that stuff in turkey? Tryptophy or something?

Laylla: Tryptophan.

Chelle: Like is Like people are going to be passing out face down in their potatoes if I give them chamomile and turkey.

Laylla: Well, that's better than arguing, right?

Chelle: Well, that's true. That's true. I should have my camera ready for this dinner.

Laylla: You should indeed. It's going to be the most relaxed, chilled Thanksgiving ever.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: Teas are fabulous for that. Cannabis teas, whether it's a smokable or or drinkable. You can also mix these spells into food or Chelle's beloved simmer pots. You can create a Thanksgiving-themed or holiday-themed simmer pot and make it a spell before people show up.

Chelle: It's called turkey, Laylla. It's called turkey.

Laylla: The day before when you're cleaning or the week before when you're cleaning and you're getting ready, we just had an amazing full moon. And if you have your full moon water, or if you have unlabeled full moon water sitting on a shelf, uh-huh, me, that's me.

Chelle: It's you.

Laylla: It's me. I have unlabeled moon water. But I know it's from a full moon, and I know it's great. So I'm going to be adding some of that to my mop water, and, you know, when I mix up different cleaning stuff, I'm going to add a bunch of full moon water to that and make sure I also add the intention of a peaceful home, of harmony in my home, of that fullness and abundance and gratitude, that beautiful light of the full moon in that water. I'm going to add that to everything I use to clean my house.

Chelle: And, you know, as you said, this is this is where I shine in simmer pot season. Like it's literally simmer pot season for me. And, you know, I'll do kind of more those types of things because I feel like, you know, remember when you were younger, you'd you'd walk into say your grandmother's house for dinner and just walking in and smelling a a particular maybe food-related smell of of her cooking that dinner that you're coming for, it kind of brings that, "I'm here to celebrate with family." I think everybody coming in to a a loving, welcoming, peaceful family gathering smell, there's something about smell magic. Is there such a thing as smell magic? But there's there's something about smell magic this time of year. Right now, I started burning those, um, balsam fir candles. I know. I'm I'm I'm jumping the gun on the holidays. I get it. But some of these smells invoke a certain I don't want to say mindset, but kind of, yeah. And and it and it 

Laylla: 100% yes. Smells are very heavily tied to memory and to thoughts, and it's an excellent trigger for spellwork. Right. Some smells can take you back to your grandmother's kitchen, or if you walk into a house and it smells like pumpkin and nutmeg and cinnamon and poultry seasoning, then you know it's Thanksgiving, and it's comfort, and it's family.

Chelle: It triggers that It triggers that internal magic. So Exactly. But I also kind of use intentional ingredients, obviously. Um, make my little witches' stew. But then in a way that's going to evoke something for the people that are coming.

Laylla: Exactly. So again, maybe if you're going to do your simmer pot a couple days before people get there, or maybe the morning before people get there while you're cooking, go with pine. Go with the pine and the cypress. Put in orange and cinnamon because that's going to be cleansing for your house. You know, use the balsam fir. Use your moon water. Put your moon water in there to do that simmer. Pick your ingredients intentionally to use ingredients of the season that will evoke good memories, but also that will bring harmony and balance and cleansing to your home, to your space.

Chelle: But also, you know, as part of of your your gratitude and and your thankfulness, I like to maybe later in the day, everybody's passed out watching football on their phones, whatever the case may be, I like to kind of take a little bit of something. Depends on my mood, what I'm doing, where I'm at, and and kind of give an offering. Give an offering to the deities that I'm grateful for, you know, and the elements. They've put in the long haul for me. You know, I I try to be gratuitous to everything, not just family and friends. And you know me, I tend to My offerings tend to be pinches of weed. So, you know, I I will put a a pinch of weed on my Hecate statue. I'll go put a pinch of weed out in the grass for the land spirits, kind of let it blow in the breeze, you know, put a pinch of weed up in the air and let it kind of blow out of my fingers for the elements. So I try to also be thankful and give that gratitude to not just family and friends, but to the deities, to to the elements, and and to the spirits around me.

Laylla: And if you have time to sneak out and kind of do that, being able to offer some of that to the land spirits and to the energies around you, you know, it's a really good way to, first off, get yourself a little bit of alone time.

Chelle: Away from all the people.

Laylla: That's right. And secondly, that's a really great way to offer gratitude and honor to your genius loci, to your land spirits, to your spirits of place. Love that. I think that's perfect.

Chelle: I just I feel that, you know, if you're going to be thankful, half the people be thankful to all the people. Go big or go home, you know. Thank everybody in your sphere, whether that's your mother or your deity, you know. Right?

Laylla: Now, I have a spell that I kind of modified a little bit from a mirror box spell.

Chelle: Interesting.

Laylla: Do you have anyone in your family, other than your kids, that comes to your holiday events, or maybe it is your kids, that is a little bit obnoxious in some way? Maybe their opinion is really out there. Maybe they hug people a little too long. You know, I don't know. Do you have one of those relatives that comes?

Chelle: I absolutely cannot say who, but yes.

Laylla: Okay. We all have one of those relatives that you want to invite and include for whatever reason.

Chelle: And love and adore to pieces, but I just wish they'd they showed up with their mouth duct-taped shut.

Laylla: There you go. Exactly. You know, maybe they won't stop talking about baseball. Maybe they're newly a vegan. Sorry, vegans, but some of you new ones are really bad. Maybe they just started some sort of pyramid scheme. I don't know. Whatever reason, you just don't want to hear it.

Chelle: Or they're the ones that are like, "Oh, you still doing that witch thing?" Yeah, Bob. It's been 30 years. I'm still doing it.

Laylla: Still doing that witch thing, Uncle Bob. Thanks. So here's what you do. Ever see those little holiday boxes? They come in all different sizes. You can get them for Thanksgiving. You can get them for Christmas. You know, it might be a little wrapping box that looks already pre-decorated, but you can find them anywhere. You can find them at craft stores. You can find them at big box stores.

Chelle: Are you talking about like empty?

Laylla: Yep. Little empty boxes. Decorative. Whether it's for wrapping presents or It could just be a plain box. It doesn't have to be one of those holiday boxes. But I say those because you can leave those out, like on a table or a mantelpiece or as part of a decorative display, and no one will know what it is. You know, so it's out there. Everyone's seeing it. It's gathering energy from the festivities, but it's undercover. It's hidden. No one's going to know it's witchy. And then line the inside with aluminum foil or mirrors. You could also, you know, glue mirrors in there if you want to get fancy.

Chelle: Oh my god, I'm going to die if you say put a rusty nail in there.

Laylla: No, Chelle, not this spell.

Chelle: How much does this person annoy you anyways?

Laylla: Not that holiday.

Chelle: We're not going that far. No, all we want to do is we want to just keep them quiet for a little bit. So, write the name of that relative that you need to put duct tape over their mouth, put it in the box, and if you want to use any herbs, if you want to use crystals, you know, if you would like to do a full spell and add some spell components to that for peace, tranquility, shut the fuck up, you know, whatever you want to put in there, you can. Then as you close the box, say, "May this person think before they act. May they see themselves before they act. May this person's energy remain enclosed." Whatever you want them to do.

Chelle: May you shut the fuck up.

Laylla: May you, may you have duct tape on your mouth. You know, may you keep to yourself. May your energy only be seen by you. May you get what you give. Whatever you want to say, just keep the idea in your mind of basically putting them in time out until the end of your gathering. I also have a little spell. You could say something like, "By mirrored glass and quiet flame, I bind the spark that bears their name. Reflect their words, their deeds, their will. Let harm be stilled, let peace fulfill. What," say their name, "sends out, shall they reclaim. As I have spoken," say their name, "is tamed."

Chelle: But just pass the damn apple pie.

Laylla: That's right. And then at the end of it, just open the box, take everything out. If you used aluminum foil, it's perfect. Just wrap up the herbs and the name, all of it into that aluminum foil, crumple it up and throw it away in the garbage, and that ends the spell. But the idea is for them to sit with their own energy rather than spread it out to other people.

Chelle: You know, we do a little thing, and it's it's not like a spell per se. We go around, everybody says something they're thankful for. And the rule is I'm not allowed to say my kids or my grandson.

Laylla: Jerks.

Chelle: They don't want me to have an easy out, basically. But it's it's kind of interesting. You know, we all have the things that we're all grateful for. But it's interesting to just sit there and take it in for a minute what the people you love are grateful for.

Laylla: Mm, I'm stealing that.

Chelle: That's just neat and interesting to kind of to experience. And it's also a good way to make your kids feel uncomfortable. And I'm pretty sure that this year my grandson is is grateful for candy.

Laylla: Oh, I think grandchildren are always grateful for candy. I I am also grateful for candy.

Chelle: But, you know, I think there's a lot of upset people right now. There's a lot of people whose worlds have been turned upside down. And, you know, we we did recently talk about that and and ways to get through that. But another way to get through that is to, not to sound like my grandma, but count your damn blessings. Take a minute and and realize that you do have stuff to be grateful for. If nothing else, your ass woke up today, and that's pretty amazing. So, you know, it's a good time to just take stock of things are shitty, but there is some good there for you. And and appreciate that for a minute. And I sometimes think that the more you look for things to appreciate, the more you find.

Laylla: Oh, I love that you do that as a tradition. My family has done that in the past, but not regularly. And I think I think I really want to. Your your tradition has kind of given me an idea for a new a new witchy thankfulness tradition that uh I might try to sneak under the radar and implement in my family. I'm not going to tell everybody what it's for because not everybody needs to know that my whole family are witches.

Chelle: They don't need to know that shit. I mean, they probably already do, but why point it out? Why point it out again?

Laylla: Exactly. All right. So pretty much everybody knows I'm a witch. I'm not very quiet about it. But if you are in a family where people don't know you are a witch, you can also do this. So what I'm thinking about doing is I have this big, beautiful wooden spoon that I absolutely love. It's a kitchen spoon. And what I'm going to do with it is cook Thanksgiving dinner with it, clean it, obviously. But when we do our go around the table and say what we're thankful for and express our gratitudes, I'm going to pass that spoon around to people and just basically tell them it's the speaking spoon. And so you'll hold the spoon, say your gratitude, and then pass it to the next person. And what they're really doing is charging that spoon with their gratitude and with their hopes, their intentions, whether they know it or not. I mean, if they know it, it's obviously better. But if they don't know it,

Chelle: Sneaky witch, I love it.

Laylla: Right? Then just keep that spoon in a safe place with your Thanksgiving things. And then next year, cook again with that spoon, and you'll be putting all of that gratitude, all of that energy back into your Thanksgiving feast, clean it, and then bring it out and do it again. And it's the speaking spoon, right? So they're holding it, and they don't even know they're putting all that gratitude into the spoon.

Chelle: You know, if I tried to do that, a, my kids would laugh at me and be like, "Mom, you're doing your witchy stuff." And then, b, my daughter would beat my son with it.

Laylla: They'd beat each other with it. But they know it's witchy. I bet they'd still do it.

Chelle: They would, but they'd laugh at me. And they'd be like, "Oh, here she goes again."

Laylla: But that's why I'm saying if you tell people, like everyone's kind of uh accustomed to the idea of a talking stick. You could just say this is the this is the talking stick, and then you can kind of slyly get it in there.

Chelle: But then what do you do with that like great aunt who won't give up the spoon? "But I'm not done yet. I'm not done yet." No, yes, you are. Yes, you are, Aunt Betty. You're done.

Laylla: You're done, Aunt Betty. That's when my fuck you ring from the last episode will come in handy. Right. Right.

Chelle: No, one of the things I just want to point out that I am going to be extra thankful for this year, and I am going to put on my list of things I'm thankful for is always you, obviously.

Laylla: Me too. I was thinking about you. I was totally thinking about you.

Chelle: But all of our listeners and everybody who supports us and hangs in there every week with us and listens to our craziness because we're really just two best friends chatting.

Laylla: Yeah.

Chelle: We're still that's still what this is, and we appreciate everybody who's joining in on the convo.

Laylla: You know, for something that started out as an excuse for us to hang out and talk witchy shit together,

Chelle: I know, right?

Laylla: there are so many of you around the world that are with us. That's pretty wild, and thank you guys so much. I am so glad that you're hanging out with us.

Chelle: We are thankful for all of you.

Laylla: And whether you're having Thanksgiving like we are here in America or, you know, you're just going over to Sunday dinner at your family's, hopefully these tips and tricks can help you out a little bit too to make it a little saner.

Chelle: May the gods be with you. Right?

Laylla: And please, folks, just remember, it's just a day. We can all get through it. Put on your sigils, you know, squirt your Florida water on, wear your talismans.

Laylla: Make sure your jewelry is charmed for peace and serenity and protection, and bring them with you.

Chelle: And then go eat your turkey and pie and get the hell out of there.

Laylla: That's right. Make your excuses, get home, go for that bowl walk with your cousins. But keep your peace and protect your boundaries.

Chelle: Family's family, and they may be annoying, and they may piss you off, but you'll miss them if they're gone. So go eat your damn dinner.

Laylla: We'll all get through this to the other side. Hopefully, we'll find some things to be thankful about. All right. Well, thank you all so much for listening to this gratitude episode of Back on the Broomstick. We are, of course, grateful for all of you. If you're grateful for us, please like, subscribe, leave us a review, some stars. It really helps the show out, and it makes us cackle like little witches.

Chelle: And oh my god, guess what? We got on this newfangled thing called BlueSky.

Laylla: Nice.

Chelle: Yeah, check us out at BOTBPodcast on BlueSky.

Laylla: New Twitter, new new social media is yay, right?

Chelle: Yay. Woohoo.

Laylla: And we also do have a PO box if you'd like to send us a Yule card. We will try and send them back to you. Send it to Back on the Broomstick, PO Box 106, Salem, Massachusetts, 01970.

Chelle: 01970. Yep.

Laylla: For those of you in the United States, I hope you have a happy feast day, however you choose to celebrate this controversial holiday.

Chelle: Be thankful, folks. Just be thankful. We'll see you on the other side.

Laylla: Whether your upcoming holiday season is filled with peace and harmony or fraught with stress and tension, we hope you're able to find more than a little bit of magic in the upcoming months and lots of ways to keep it witchy.
