Laylla: Welcome to Back on the Broomstick, a modern witch's spoken word grimoire, where two witchy friends from way back are reconnecting to their pagan roots after a long period of mundanity. We're rewalking the path of the wise and trying out all the latest spells, rituals, and magical theory in today's witchcraft and pagan practices. So grab your wand and your incense, your cauldron and your crystals, and join us as we get back on the broomstick.

Laylla: Hi, and welcome to Back on the Broomstick. On this episode, we are stepping into the wild and the sacred with our guest, who is an author, a folklorist, a teacher, and a community leader. We have with us today H. Byron Ballard, Asheville's beloved village witch and keeper of Appalachian magic and folklore. And in this episode, we're going to talk about her upcoming book, A Feral Church, as well as the Goddess in winter, Yule traditions, and so much more.

Chelle: Now, I'm Chelle, and I am damn excited because all those things that Laylla just said, she forgot that, Byron, you are just the coolest chick around.

Byron: Woohoo!

Chelle: You really are, and we love you so much. So welcome.

Laylla: Welcome.

Byron: It is so good—

Laylla: Welcome back.

Byron: Yes, and it's so good to see you both again. It's as much as we all complain about social media, the good thing about our socials is that we kind of keep up with each other, and that's really important. So, yeah, thank you. Thank you for having me back.

Chelle: Distance isn't a big of a thing anymore, and I love that that social media has taken away that that distance issue.

Byron: Years ago, in the, I guess in the '80s, maybe, we we talked so much about, "Oh, imagine if we just meet in the astral, and we could really communicate deeply." And, "When I see you in the astral, I will be an eagle." "Well, I will be a wolf." And now, of course, Zoom is the astral. We meet in the astral all the time.

Laylla: Yes, and I am a woman in a bathrobe, usually, when I'm in the astral.

Chelle: Now, real quick, speaking of meeting, we're super excited, and, Laylla, I know we didn't talk about this, but I'm left-turning in here. We were just talking about how we had met you earlier in 2024 at Sacred Space, and we are doing a ritual meditation in 2025 at Sacred Space. And we were just talking about how amazing it was that we met you and so many other great witches there. And actually, that was kind of the first time I was introduced to you at Sacred Space because I'm kind of a recluse, mostly. And you just, this this last year of of being exposed to you and your your vast knowledge and wisdom has just been mind-blowing for me. So thank you for coming into my sphere.

Byron: Oh, that is so kind. Thank you. Thank you for that.

Laylla: She is she is a sweetheart. But I do want to take a—I'm going to take a left turn because I am super excited about your book, A Feral Church. You have been writing about this a little on Facebook. There's a Facebook group for it. And this is my kind of magic. This is right up my alley. I was a feral child. I was looking for magic in the world and truly feel that the Earth is our mother, and I truly feel most at home whether I'm tending my plants in the city or I'm outside in the forest. You know, I I just feel that connection to Earth. And meditation, as Chelle knows, is one of my things, and I know that's a big part of this pathworking journey that you've got in your book. So I understand it was kind of inspired a little bit by Dr. Carol Christ, who was one of our founding mothers of of the Goddess movement. Can you can you tell us a little bit about that?

Byron: Absolutely. And I'm going to try not to cry when I tell you this. Um, and you all know we have been for the past almost three months, we have been up to our eyeballs in a natural disaster here. So my tears are really close. They're really close to the back of my eyes. So if you hear me going [sniffs], I even have a tissue to blow my nose. So, um, I don't know how many years ago. Was that two, three years ago? I was at, um, Appalachian Summer Solstice Festival, which is in Southern Ohio at Wisteria. And I hit I heard, you know, picked up my phone early in the morning and heard that Carol Christ had died. And I never met Dr. Christ, but her work had a profound effect on me. And so I just sat there being contemplative and a little weepy and sad. And and some of it was very selfish. I was sad because I was never going to meet her. I would never get to do one of her pilgrimages, none of that. So it was very kind of personal wah wah wah. As it is okay for that to be, too. Um, and a friend came over and said, "Oh, you okay?" And I went, "Well, yeah, but," and told what had happened. So we sat there pouring Irish whiskey into our coffee, our morning coffee, um, and and talking about the profound effect she had had on both of us and the Goddess movement in general. So I get back in my car on Sunday, and I'm driving home. It's a about a seven-and-a-half-hour drive. Uh, and I kept hearing this voice going, "Well, it's probably time for a new Goddess theology book. I mean, she hasn't written—Dr. Christ hadn't written anything new and big in a long time, and we have we've had kind of a dearth of Goddess spirituality new new information." And I went, "Yeah, oh, I hope somebody does that." So I was having this kind of internal dialogue with myself. And and I think, I personally think, that part of that dialogue was, in fact, the Great Mother saying, "Yeah, mm, that'd be a good thing to happen." "Yeah, huh, wonder who could write that?" Who could it be? "Who could possibly do that?" And I kept going, "Yeah, I don't I don't really know," and thinking about some of the great thinkers I know who are Goddess theologians. And then it hit me, "Well, you could write that." And I and immediately I was like, "No, are you nuts? That? Duh. Nobody knows me for any of that work."

Laylla: Imposter syndrome rears its head.

Byron: Oh, exactly. And then came very clearly, "You're a woman who throughout her entire long years has been a Goddess worshiper. I have never ever seen divinity in male form. So that when I would go to church with my grandmother when I was little and they would say, 'God, he,' it didn't make—it didn't make sense to me. Like, why why would you say that? That's so weird. I mean, I got that Jesus was a boy. That made sense. But the whole rest of it just it made no sense to me." Which I guess means that I didn't think of Jesus as a divinity, but we can let that go. And and I am one of the founders of a Goddess temple that has been around for almost 20 years. So who else could do it?

Chelle: You weren't being asked. You were being gently told.

Byron: Yeah, I was being—what is—we have a a member of our Circle of Counsel who always brings her very strong husband when we have work to do, and he always sort of bows his head and goes, "Yes, I was volunteered to be here." So so that's how it felt like I had been volunteered. Now you get to write this. And then, of course, I didn't know where to begin.

Chelle: Real quick, I just want to kind of touch on the the backstory. What really kind of drove you and your clan of people to found what is now the Mother Grove Goddess Temple? And can you talk about um that temple a little bit for us? Like, what was your inspiration back when when this came about for you?

Byron: We were a very, very active and still are a very active pagan community here in Asheville. And early on, oh, gosh, during one of the Bush administrations, I think Bush 2, we decided we wanted—it was necessary for us to do a pagan nonprofit that did social service stuff because there were far too many Christian groups here that in order to get a box of food, you had to pray to Jesus.

Chelle: Right. Right.

Byron: Which which, you know, that happens all over the world and has for hundreds of years.

Chelle: Doesn't make it right.

Byron: No, it doesn't make it right, but it it is normalized, as they say. So we did that, and we created the Coalition of Earth Religions for Education and Support, which is still active today. It's called CERES, C-E-R-E-S.

Laylla: Oh, I like.

Byron: And out of that group, we we met during the the witch wars of the '90s. We just kept broadening what community looked like. And and I and several other people tried to push that organization to consider doing a Goddess temple. And they were really firm that that was not their vision. It was not their mandate. And so, I'm sorry, this is kind of long, but it it's kind of weird and cool, too. So Earth Day to me has always been the ninth holy day on the wheel.

Laylla: Yes.

Byron: And in Asheville, Earth Day is when we have a big party, and there's a lot of great beer and the and bands and what else, and it always just infuriated me. And I couldn't figure out why. And then I woke up about two weeks before Earth Day was supposed to happen and realized that I wanted to do a ritual. So I called a whole bunch of people and asked if they would come and bring a song or a prayer or a dance, and we would meet under this big tree in a public park, and we would celebrate Earth Day. Well, we did that. We had a big huge turnout. And afterwards, we all met at somebody—one of the women's houses around the fire in the backyard, standard operating procedure. We drank—

Laylla: Yes.

Byron: Yeah, we drank a lot of tequila. And over the course of a few hours, we determined that it was that we would do it. We were going to start a Goddess temple. And we did the paperwork to do our nonprofit status. We submitted it to the IRS on the summer solstice, and we received we and we got the word back on Bastille Day that we were a nonprofit church. That's how fast it happened.

Laylla: Wow.

Byron: So there has always been a sense that we live, that we lead a kind of a charmed existence, and what we're doing now is is is no surprise to any of us that we've jumped into what we're doing with, um, the Helene relief.

Laylla: I'm glad you mentioned that because actually, an interview with you was requested by our listeners, in particular because, you know, they wanted to see how you're doing. You are quite a favorite amongst our listeners. We have a a discussion group on Facebook, and they requested that we have you come on and, uh, talk about your book and also ask you how you were doing with those relief efforts. How are people doing, and and do they still need help?

Byron: Um, yes. Yes. Yes. Uh, at this point, much of the triage work has been done. So the work that we could do, which was bringing food and water and, uh, propane heaters—I know more about propane heaters than I ever thought I would know. Mr. Heater, your propane buddy, is also our buddy. And we have six of them at Mother Grove Goddess Temple ready to go out into the community.

Laylla: That's wonderful.

Byron: Yeah, um, but what has to happen now is that it's people literally rebuilding their homes, and that's that's not something we can be much help with. We can we can ask people to send us money for Lowe's gift cards so we and we just hand those out to people. But we're in this for the long haul. It's going to take another two or three years just to establish a baseline of where we were. Uh, it has devastated Helene and the math aftermath of that devastated an area the size of Belgium. In my county alone, we lost almost 50% of our mature trees.

Laylla: Wow.

Byron: And that wasn't from the flood. That was from the rain and the wind. And then this past few days, we have had more heavy rain and wind, and we've lost more trees. So we are I mean, we're all in it for the long haul. Um, but, I mean, we're tired. I'm I'm profoundly tired. But I also am energized by by the work that we're doing. We're operating like every little Baptist church in Western North Carolina. We are. We have a food pantry, and we're handing out warm clothes and heaters and gas cards. And and we're doing all those tending to the community things that we think of churches doing, but without the toxic, "You don't have to pray with us to get a cake." You can just have a box of food.

Laylla: Right. Right.

Byron: You can just have a heater. You can just be there. Yeah.

Laylla: And I think that's the next evolution of paganism. We are all individuals, but having groups, having places like Mother Grove Goddess Temple that we can turn to, that we can, uh, donate our time to, that we can be part of is is going to be vitally important. It's great to meet here in the ether, and I'm so glad it's here for people that can't meet in person, but I do think that we need these real-life places as well, real-life churches.

Byron: Right. And and physical places are really important.

Laylla: I agree.

Byron: We sent a load—a carload of things out the Tuesday after the disaster, and we encountered a group in Bernardsville that was primitive skills people and burners and anarchists and just a whole plethora of folks like that. And they had organized a mutual aid station that was an old firehouse. And the first bay was missing persons. The second bay was, uh, medical help. Then the next bay was clothes. The next bay was food. And outside the building, there were probably a thousand cases of water. And it was so beautifully organized, and it could it could happen because they were—they knew how to organize because that's who they are. I mean, anybody who's been around Burning Man or Rainbow, they know, for as high as most of those people are, they still know how to organize mutual aid.

Laylla: Yes.

Byron: But what was really important is they had a space. They had a physical place to do that. They weren't doing it in the parking lot of a five-and-dime. They they had a place to be. And that, in a disaster, is incredibly important.

Chelle: Absolutely. There's something to be said for having four walls to work out of.

Byron: Yeah. Um, and we were lucky. At Mother Grove is tiny. It's three rooms in what used to be an old hospital. And we basically boxed up all the books and put them in a corner, and we made room for more food, and we brought in all the food and water we could. And then we ran out of space for water, and in the hallway outside the temple, there are just cases and cases of water. And the—somebody said, "Aren't you afraid people will steal it?" And we said, "What? Steal it? It's—it's for people to have. Let them take what they need." And so we made sure everybody in the building knew that that water, well, it wasn't our water. It was our water. It was their water. And so people take water.

Laylla: Water shared is life shared.

Byron: That's what I believe. So that has been really—it's been good for us. We were initially at the temple every day, seven days. We did that for about five weeks.

Laylla: Wow.

Byron: And then we realized we just we we couldn't, with the number of volunteers we had, we just couldn't keep that pace up. So now we're there Monday, Wednesday, Friday, or by appointment. So if someone says, "Oh, I can't be there. Is anybody going to be there Sunday?" then one of us will step up and go, "Yeah, yeah, I can come by Sunday. What time are you coming?" So it's been really—it's going to sound weird, but it's been so good for us because we feel like we're doing important work. And yes, public rituals for each of the holy days is important work. Uh, having a food pantry for years is important work. But this feels like serving the community in a way that we've never had the opportunity to serve before.

Laylla: And I love that you are there and are able to help so many people. I've I've followed along on your social media with the things that you get and have been able to help in the community, and it's just so heartwarming. Um, I will make sure to put links to all of that because you—your your community is going to need you for the near future. It's not over.

Byron: No. No.

Laylla: It's going to be years of helping to take care of people, just being there for ceremony, for ritual, not just the food pantry and the outreach, but all sorts of needs. So I'll make sure that there's links people can find you and and continue to help.

Byron: Thank you. And that's been one of the joys of this, too, is that people can come to Mother Grove, and we will light the candles on the main altar, and we will leave them in the chapel so that they can do what religions, spiritualities choose to do, which is to spend time with the divine and just meditate or pray or cry or just find a place of some comfort. And that's been really beautiful because we've never done that, done much of that, which is just to be available as a a place of worship.

Chelle: I love that you offer that, and I wish there was more of that across, not just the country, but across the world, really.

Byron: Me, too. Me, too.

Laylla: Especially nowadays. So I am going to veer a little bit, but still in the same vein of of physical places. Uh, one of the big cornerstones of your belief system is in animism, is spirits of place. Uh, it seems to be that, you know, you're very much tied to the land.

Byron: Mm.

Laylla: Can you talk to us a little bit about connecting to spirits of place and to the energies of the land, particularly in wintertime?

Byron: As always, I'm going to tell you that by telling you a story. Somewhere in my socials, and I don't remember which one, someone was saying that the river—one of the rivers that flooded is the French Broad River, which is perhaps the third oldest river in the world. It's a very—it's older than the Appalachian Mountains, and you know how old those are. And this person was saying that he was afraid to be near the river now because it had caused so much destruction. And so the the vibe felt wrong to him, and other people chimed in with, "Oh, it just feels dangerous, and it feels like it doesn't like me anymore." And I came into the conversation to say, "Third oldest river in the world, amazing river. We take advantage of this river all the time, and we don't treat it with the respect we should. But the point is that rivers have a limited number of things they do. They flow, and when there's a lot of rain, they flood, and when there's not enough rain, there's drought and they dry out. And that's what rivers do. And it's not personal. The French Broad did not flood to punish the people of Asheville and Buncombe County. Neither did the Swannanoa. None of these rivers, the Big Ivy, none of these rivers that flooded, flooded in a punitive way because they hate people. They do what rivers do. And it's the same with the trees. Yeah, we lost we lost so many oak trees. It It still hurts to see these 100-year-old, 150, 200-year-old trees that just uprooted themselves and fell over. And their roots are still reaching skyward as the tree itself dies. And it's a hard thing for people like me to look at. But again, the trees didn't fall over because the wind was mean, and the trees didn't fall over because the rain drowned them. The trees fell over because the wind was too strong and we had too much rain and the soil let go. And it's not It's not emotional. I mean, it's emotional for us. We feel it very deeply. But But for all those pieces of nature, they don't do that to punish us. They do that because that's how nature behaves.

Laylla: It's just what nature is and what nature does.

Byron: Yeah. And so many people were saying things like, "Oh, who could have expected this?" And a lot of us said, "Well, we expect this because it's happened before." There was a flood on this same river, on the French Broad, in 1916 that my family lived by the river and I heard stories growing up my whole life about the great flood of 1916. And at that point, the French Broad rose to 22.4 feet, I think, above its banks.

Laylla: Wow.

Byron: And this And this time was 27. So, it was arguably worse than the 1916 flood. But 1916 is not within living memory, but I'm only two generations removed from that living memory because my grandmother remembered it. She was 12 years old. She remembered it really well. So, we did know that. And in 1940, it flooded. And in 2004, it flooded. But we love to forget about those things because that feels icky or, "Oh, that couldn't possibly happen again because now we're so much more sophisticated." And we're just not because, as you all know, Mother Nature always bats last. Always.

Laylla: Oh, yes. It's true.

Byron: And we can think we have some control over nature, but we simply don't.

Laylla: No. No, and and it can be scary sometimes, especially if you feel disconnected from that. If If you feel like it is a personal attack or if you don't feel that you have that connection to the place. Do you have anything that you can recommend magically that a pagan, a witch, or a heathen could do in in a place to help them feel more connected to the space that they're in?

Byron: I'm always going to tell people to ground themselves. Just ground yourself. Feel what the earth itself feels like. We had a little bit of a scare a few days ago, maybe two days ago, with the New Madrid fault. And do you know about that?

Laylla: Yes, I do. Yeah.

Byron: Yeah, it did a little kind of shimmy. And for those who know, they know that that fault in 1812, it busted loose and the Missis- part of the Mississippi River ran backwards. That's how powerful it was.

Chelle: Not every event has to have a sinister meaning behind it. Sometimes things just are.

Byron: Yep, exactly. And it's it's different if we're talking about places in Pennsylvania where there have been so much fracking.

Laylla: Right.

Chelle: And the old coal mines, those are bad.

Byron: Yeah. Yeah, and those are bad. That's human intervention into natural activity, and it usually comes back to bite humans on the ass. So, we do it to each other. It's not nature doing that.

Chelle: You brought up Pennsylvania, and that reminds me of a question I needed to ask you. So, I had to actually write this quote down. I was I was doing some back research um on Feral Church before today, and I was listening to a couple of interviews you did. And you stated, and I love this phrase so much, "You are from where your grandmother was born." My question is, maternal or paternal?

Byron: Either one. I mean, what a Good question, by the way. Um Yeah, when I was growing up, that was the understanding in this part of Appalachia is that you aren't even from where you were born. You are from where your grandmother was born. Well, my grandmother was born in Buncombe County, so I am from Buncombe County. But I also was born in Buncombe County, so I think in olden times, that made sense. Now, if we had been We were I think most families are like this. We were more focused on one on my mother's side than we were my father's. Um and I think that happens with a lot of people. They're focused on one side or the other often.

Chelle: Yeah.

Byron: Yeah, often whichever side is physically closest or or is nicest. I don't know.

Chelle: Cuz I loved the concept, but then I'm sitting there and I'm like, "Okay, is this is this my mother's mother, that grandma, or is this my father's mother, that grandma?" And actually, one of my grandmothers was born in Central PA. So, that's how Pennsylvania did of that. So, I'm like, "Okay, so I I apparently I am from Central Pennsylvania."

Byron: Oh. Oh, how does that feel? Have you been there? Have you been to Central Pennsylvania?

Chelle: Um I actually I used to spend as a child, I would go two weekends a month down to my great-grandmother's down in Wilkes-Barre Scranton area. So, I actually did spend a lot of time in that area as a child. So, yeah, I actually It's hollow. When I think of Wilkes-Barre Scranton, Pennsylvania, and if for any listeners in the that area, I apologize, it just feels hollow. And I know it's because it really is because of the coal mines, because that whole area is literally hollow underneath maybe 6-8 ft of of of topsoil. And that's exactly how it feels there, is hollow.

Byron: That would be such an interesting oh, reclamation act is how you could fill those hollow places with love or enchantment or healing so that so that there was some even if it's if it's uh spirit, it's bulky so that there's something under there and it doesn't feel so hollow. Oh, I'm going to be thinking about that. That'll be, ooh.

Chelle: That'd actually spark you to want to go to Central Pennsylvania. But yeah, that's kind of that's the sense you get is that not not hollowed ground as we normally think of hollowed ground, but hollow in a sense that there's nothing underneath you.

Byron: But you know, in in European tradition anyway, folk and fairy tradition, there is a wonderful concept of hollow hills.

Chelle: Oh, under hills.

Byron: And hollow mountains. And oh, I love thinking about that. So, how would you then people those underground hollow chambers with spirit folk that would be looking out for the land itself? And maybe they're already there.

Laylla: There's a lot in Pennsylvania has a very strong cryptid and forest creature and land spirit, you know. This is a very strong land for that. Around every every tree, around every rock, there's a different type of creature that's here. So, I would not be surprised if those caverns weren't already filled with something.

Byron: Oh, oh, I love that. Yeah, yeah.

Laylla: The little people are pretty active here in Pennsylvania.

Byron: And it's it's a huge spirit place. I I love Pittsburgh. Sorry. I know people look at me like I'm crazy. The first time I got to Pittsburgh, I was like, "How did this place get so magical?" And people go, "Pittsburgh? What is wrong with you?" But that place where the Monongahela and what's the other river? Anyway, where they come together at a point and form the Ohio. And underneath, there's an aquifer that literally shoots out of the ground. Oh, wow. So, it is it is the place of four rivers flowing in the same direction in one place feels incredibly powerful. And I know Pittsburgh is weird.

Chelle: I've always found river confluences to be a very magical place.

Byron: Mhm. And oh, I feel It's not Astrobula, but it's an A name like that.

Laylla: Is it the Allegheny River?

Byron: Yes, sorry. Allegheny. I was go- In my head, I was like, "It's a mountain range. It's a mountain range. Starts with an A." Yes. The Allegheny and the Monongahela come together to form the Ohio. And the tip of land where that happens, I mean, it has a pretty sad history from Native tribes and enslaved people that I think probably adds to the dimensionality of it. But there's a fountain where the aquifer just shoots into the air. I I just can't describe it. It's so incredibly powerful and magical. So, there's a lot about Pennsylvania that is that is just amazing, amazing. And I would love to see people love Pennsylvania a little bit more and be less embarrassed by it.

Laylla: Oh my gosh, I moved here in March. I live in North Central Pennsylvania, and I am absolutely in love with this whole area. Absolutely love this place. I'm not from here, you know. My people and myself are more from the Finger Lakes area of New York. But I feel like I belong here, you know. From the moment I stepped onto this mountain and started walking these woods, it feels so good to work with the spirits here, with the land spirits. And going out into the woods, I know Chelle has encountered quite a There's a lot of ghosts here. It's an old church, so there's also a lot of other types of spirits here as well. But it just feels so good to go out to this place and to sit with the spirits of this land and to just be there with them. And I, you know, that's something I absolutely love when I move to a new area is connecting with those spirits.

Chelle: Yeah, until you're sleeping in your spare bed and all your windows are filled with those spirits watching me sleep. Yeah, good times.

Laylla: There's a few ghosts here, too.

Byron: Good. Yeah, and and something that we don't talk about much that I would love to see, especially the pagan community, really jump into a little bit more is that the time between Samhain and the winter solstice is really the time of ghosts and spirits. You know, we have

Chelle: We need to talk about that a lot more. Yeah.

Byron: Yeah, because we have the big blowout at at Halloween and Samhain and we go, "Oh, that was great. All the ghosts." But I'm telling you, this last days away from the winter solstice, everybody's going to have people looking in the window while they're sleeping. Everybody.

Laylla: Mhm. Not just not just Santa Claus this time.

Byron: No.

Laylla: There's the Christmas Witch and there's Krampus and and all the Yule Cat. Oh, Yule Cat. Odin with the Wild Hunt and all these different gods, goddesses, spirits that help to shuttle or or ferry our dead from Samhain to the solstice. This is the time when they all ride through.

Chelle: And that's kind of the new perspective I've had. And and I'll admit, this is something that is kind of a new concept for me to be following. But I'm starting to look at this this time between Samhain and Yule is kind of like everybody shows up at Samhain and then by the solstice, it's time to go. You better You know, like like like you're it's almost like when people come for the holidays. They're all showing up during Samhain and by Yule, "Okay, move along. You don't have to go home, but you can't stay here," kind of thing.

Byron: Yes. Yes, exactly. And something that we play around with, uh play around is probably the wrong phrase, but something that we honor here is that when the wild geese are making their southern migration, that they often pick up the spirits that need to be moving on. And I call it in Northern Europe, they refer to that as the gabble ratchet. Um and when we see the and hear, especially, the gabble ratchet moving south, we acknowledge, hand over heart, ancestors because the ancestors are going home now to the big home. Which has led me because I'm, you know, I'm Western European to the core, I always think about the other lands, the summer lands, the apple lands, they're in the west. But the older I get and the more I think about all the people that move from the colder part of the country southward,

Chelle: Mhm.

Byron: and I think about elders and and ancestors moving, where would they go? They'd go to like Key Largo, wouldn't they?

Chelle: Right. Right.

Byron: They wouldn't want to stay here.

Laylla: There are so many cultures, I I believe it's the the Norse or some Scandinavian cultures, it's the swan that carries spirits to the afterworld. You know, here in America, it's geese or sometimes cardinals or sparrows. So, I think that's pretty interesting, you know, that when they fly south, that they're they're taking the spirits of your beloved dead with them. I think, you know, maybe the summer lands are in the south. Where it's warm.

Byron: Where they literally, they literally are.

Laylla: That's true.

Chelle: Now, speaking of of the solstice and Yule, we want to hear a little bit about some of your Yule traditions, some of your solstice traditions. What are things that you try to, whether it be on a spiritual work level or a DIY super fun holiday craft, like what does Byron Ballard do for Yule and solstice?

Byron: Well, my daughter, who is now 33, it's so hard to even believe that, she was raised pagan. She is a cradle pagan.

Chelle: I see.

Byron: And since the time, yeah. Yes. And since the time she was very small, uh we would get we get up before the sun comes up on the solstice and we sing the sun up. And we make noise. We had have noisemakers and drums and all that and we would and as we can see the light because here, the sun comes up, but and it gets light, but we don't see the sun because there are mountains between us and the sun.

Chelle: Right. Right.

Byron: So, it takes a while for that to happen. And then, we would sing and then the last thing we always sing is "Here Comes the Sun," dun dun dun dun. And then, we would go in and I would drink coffee and she would have hot chocolate. And we did that all the way through college because she would come home from college. Then, when she went out into the world, we don't do that anymore. And I do it, meh, most years. I will go out with a cup of coffee and I'll, you know, rattle a bell or beat a drum and then I will sing George Harrison and then it's like, "Yay, yay, yay." Um so, that's one thing that I love doing. I collect early on in the in the season, I collect Hanukkah gelt, the chocolate coins,

Chelle: Mhm.

Byron: because they remind us the sun is returning, Sol Invictus. And so, I put those in all my gifts. Um so, you might get a loaf of hand- made by me banana bread, chocolate chip banana bread, and some gold coins to remind you that the sun is returning. And I still laugh. Every time I say that, I laugh and think, "Well, the sun has always been there the whole time. The planet is just the tilt is changing. That's what's happening." But that's not nearly so romantic as the thought that the sun returns.

Laylla: The sun is returning.

Byron: Yeah, the unconquered sun returned.

Laylla: Coming back.

Byron: Yeah, and I think there's something so beautiful about that. And and not just me thinking that, of course, because there are so many holidays, holy days, around the winter solstice. And that is just absolutely agriculturally based because at that point, the days will get longer. Now, they may be snowy and sub-zero, but the light is really, really important, I think, for humans.

Laylla: And even from a scientific perspective, there's something absolutely stunningly beautiful about how dark it gets, how deep you have to go within going towards the solstice. It forces you to be quiet, to go within a little bit more. And then, the knowledge that that light is coming back. We love the lights. I mean, as much as the dark can be comforting and a place of healing, we do also want to go towards that. So, just knowing that now with the tilt has changed, what is it, the axis tilt is the reason for the season?

Byron: Absolutely. Right? But we know that, and but that doesn't mean that it's any less profound or spiritual or beautiful. Just knowing that that light is starting to grow and get bigger and bigger is is just so wonderfully beautiful. You know, it doesn't have to be some crazy uh, "Oh, the sun might not come back if we don't make the noises." But, you know, whether it's scientific or spiritual, it's still absolutely beautiful. And I love it.

Byron: You know, that that old-fashioned notion that people made a lot of noise and all that at the winter solstice because they were afraid the sun wouldn't come back, you only had to live through one cycle. And you would go, "Oh, no, now is the time when the days get longer." It literally is not rocket science. It's just observation. And so, you if you live in a community of people, the oldest people will know, "Yes, every year that happens." It'll be fine. I mean, we can do some stuff if we want to, but it's still just going to happen.

Laylla: And there would always be a Chelle who would fail to wake up at dawn because there's no way she's getting up that early. And yet, it would still happen and it would still come and So, everyone would be like, "That's okay. Well, we slept through it this year and it still happened. We're good. We're okay."

Chelle: We can sleep through it next year now.

Laylla: There you go.

Byron: Well, it's really it's the beauty of following the cycle of the seasons, isn't it? So, two solstices, two equinoxes. We don't have to believe in that. That's astronomical. It's going to happen.

Chelle: It is a hard concept though, especially when you are in like say where we're located in the Northeast, you know. Yes, the sun is returning, but that's the start of bitter, cold season. And sometimes, it's hard to equate the light half of the year with such cold. Mhm. It really is.

Byron: You have to kind of trick yourself with that, I think, because just because there is more light doesn't mean there's more warmth. Right. Right. And and I'm a big Brigid person. So, we get to Imbolc, which I believe is the beginning of spring, and people go, "Why, are you out of your mind? It's going to be like 12 degrees." But it's the very bitty, bitty, bitty beginning of spring so that we see the snowdrops come up. We see the daffodils starting to come up. So, just like with a lot of cultures and the and the Celts were one of those, the beginning of it was subtle and small and it required you to pay deep attention to it. And then you could go, "Oh, it is spring because look, in this place where we had 36 degree weather for three days, the chickweed is already up." And that happens, and it forces us as humans to really pay attention to the world around us and not wait for and not wait for the big signs, but to see the subtleties.

Chelle: We need a little more of that. Paying attention to the subtleties.

Guest: Yeah.

Laylla: And I think that's what it sounds like a lot of what A Feral Church is about. It's a solstice to solstice journey, right? There's meditations with each chapter, with each part of it. And I think that's all about paying attention. It sounds like it's about getting in touch with all those little things.

Guest: Well, that's part of it. I mean, that's really more my book, Seasons of a Magical Life, that came out a few years ago, that was really it was all about things you could do as the season rolled through. A Feral Church is about the original subtitle was Finding Goddess in the Wilderness. And it's about going either going out into the places that are wild and untamed and natural, and that's harder and harder to do because there aren't so many of those places anymore. But a lot of those places are in here. They're in our hearts and souls and in our heads. So, A Feral Church is about going inward or outward or actually both and finding the place where you meet the divine and the divine meets you.

Chelle: And even if you're located in the big city, you can get into that deep, dark forest in your mind and meet the divine.

Guest: Well, or you can find the divine in the heart of that deep of that big, crazy city. Because there's a chapter in A Feral Church where the conceit of the book is that this group of pilgrims move from place to place, encountering different aspects of the divine, either within themselves or outside. And one of the one of the chapters takes place with pelting down rain in a city that I imagine is New York because that's a big city I know pretty well. And they're going to meet a a psychologist and a counselor who is a sin eater, who practices the ancient art of sin eating. And it's all about whether it is the built environment of an urban setting or it's the wild environment of the steppes, it is still a place where these encounters happen all the time. And to pay attention to those encounters leads you into a deeper relationship. An objection I have all the time to goddess figures that come from, you know, the places where you buy, "Oh, I'd love to have a picture on a statue on my altar of a particular divinity," is that they almost always look like the cover the Frazetta covers of the '70s for fantasy art. And they have, you know, enormous pointed breasts and tiny waists and tiny hips and little skinny arms. And you just think, "Yeah, yeah, it's I never see her that way. I never see them that way." So I really want A Feral Church to be an a way to open your eyes to the multiplicity of divine female.

Laylla: Mm-hmm.

Guest: But also to find all the places you can feel that. I don't know, probably you two have never been there, but in Nashville, Tennessee, there is a recreation Have you been there?

Laylla: I've been there.

Chelle: Big tall gold statue? Is that what you're going to say?

Guest: Yes.

Chelle: Yes, I've seen that. I have seen that.

Guest: It's extraordinary because we are so used to, "Oh, the goddess, she's about, you know, 10 inches tall and she's made of plaster." And you walk into the Parthenon and

Chelle: It's huge.

Guest: she is so huge that standing in her hand is Winged Nike, the goddess of victory. And Winged Nike is 6 feet tall.

Chelle: Yeah. Yeah.

Guest: She's just and she was my Athena was my first goddess. So when I saw that in Nashville, I literally fell to my knees weeping. It was like, that's that's what we had. In Greece and Rome, that's what we had. And the idea, I mean, I can't imagine what it would take to commission an artist to to to sculpt that. But just imagine if regionally we had these hubs of goddess worship like Ephesus was. And there are many, many different kinds of temples and chapels and and she can be everywhere. Well, we are unlikely in this Christian-dominated nation to ever have that.

Chelle: Honestly, um, actually that's

Laylla: That makes me sad.

Chelle: When I said my mother lives in Middle Tennessee, she does live outside of Nashville. And when I went when I went down there, um, I I did win I went and saw the Athena statue. And and all I could think of is, and it's true, this is probably the only time I will ever see in the greater public in America a goddess statue. And, Laylla, for frame of reference, this damn thing is like 100 feet tall, if not like it's literally like 100 feet tall. Like, you don't see goddess statues like that in America. And I loved it so much. And it was just just it was so striking being that shiny gold and being so big that you're just you're just in awe. You're just in awe.

Guest: Yeah.

Chelle: And the fact that that was that I knew at the time I will never see with my own eyes another goddess statue in America other than this one. It it was definitely a profound thing.

Laylla: Wow.

Chelle: Wow.

Laylla: Well, with having Mother Grove Goddess Temple and other other places around the country, hopefully we can have more and more of them. Hopefully we will have more and more people starting churches and groups and local, I was going to say local groups again, but churches and groups and and local circles, whatever, groves, however you want to do it. I think that's going to be very important going forward. We're going to need to find each other.

Guest: Oh, I've had probably a half dozen, maybe more, people contact me just on the strength of what they think A Feral Church is about to say, "This is the group I work with in Arizona, Colorado, Oregon. And and is this a feral church? Is what we is this thing that we're doing a feral church?" So what I'm going to say to the two of you, because you will get this, and the people who listen to your podcast are going to get this, this book is the tip of the spear. It is the tip of the spear of a movement that is all about reclaiming divine female, Great Mother, the mother world. It's all about reclamation and celebration of all of that. And there is a a website that will be out when the book launches in January and a series of white papers, one of which is, "What is a feral church and are you one and do you want one?"

Laylla: Nice.

Guest: And and it is all about going into Oh, this is going to be the most controversial thing that I'm going to say and that you're going to hear, I think. I think of the Abrahamic religions as this beautiful old building. It's wonderful old structure that has been abused for decades, for hundreds of years, for centuries. And I am going into that structure and I'm taking out everything that works. So I'm taking out the concept of the house church. I'm taking out the concept of religious education. I am taking out the concept of mutual aid and of feeding people. So I I think of it as going into this old, old structure and I'm taking out the copper pipes, and I'm taking out the copper wiring, and I'm taking out the beautiful mantelpieces that are made of marble, and I'm taking down the newel posts that are carved from oak. I'm taking all of those things that still have value out of that structure, and we are going to use them in this movement to revive not only the worship of the divine feminine, the Goddess, the Great Mother. And throughout the book, I refer to them as singular and plural because I don't care if you think of it as one one being with many aspects or many aspects that are attached together. I don't care. And it doesn't matter how you think of it. It's not about dogma. And then at some point, all of us together are going to take the roof off that old building and let it collapse.

Laylla: Yes. Yes.

Chelle: Yes.

Laylla: Every hair on my body is standing up. Yes. Absolutely. Yes.

Chelle: I cannot wait. When is when is the book out live for order?

Guest: Oh, you can pre-order it now. And I suggest that people go to my local indie bookstore, which is malaprops.com, m-a-l-a-p-r-o-p-s.com, and you can pre-order it. And when it comes in, they will bring out a big rolling cart of all the pre-ordered books. I will sign them all, and I will stick a bookmark in it, and then they will go out to you. I understand that the finished book, which is what I have here, I got a copy of it on Monday, the finished book is now in Llewellyn's warehouse.

Laylla: Nice.

Guest: So there is a chance, if you do a pre-order now, that you will get it before the launch date, which is January the 8th.

Laylla: I will make sure that there are links to that. I will put that whole link right down in the in the show notes so that you can run right over to Malaprop's and and pre-order your copy because I'm going there right after we wrap.

Guest: And that is absolute truth. It's true of any of my books because they have all of my books in stock there. So if you want to order one of my books, order it from them and I'll go up they'll they'll send me a little email and say, "We have some books up here you need to sign," and I'll go up and sign them because they're like 5 minutes away.

Laylla: Oh, nice. That makes it even more convenient. Perfect.

Chelle: And honestly, we like supporting local businesses as well. So this is a good way to support a local business in the community that needs the help the most right now.

Guest: Thank you. That's huge. Thank you.

Laylla: Thank you for joining us, Byron. It has been absolutely wonderful, and we are very much looking forward to this book coming out. So thank you.

Guest: Thank you so much. It's always a pleasure to be with you both.

Chelle: Thank you so much.

Laylla: All right. We will make sure to put links and everything in the show notes. Is there anywhere you're going to be coming up in the end of December, January, any place that people can find you?

Guest: I'm not going to be out and about probably until I think I'm online somewhere in February, and I'll be out in the world in March.

Laylla: Oh, good. A little of going within time for Byron's stay.

Chelle: I was going to say, so you're taking advantage of the dark time and going within and and and greeting the light.

Guest: I'm a big fan. I'm a big fan.

Chelle: Take the time it sounds like you need it as well, just as much as all of us.

Guest: Yeah, for sure. All of us do. Thank you both so much.

Laylla: Thank you so much to Byron Ballard for joining us on Back on the Broomstick. We really appreciate you spending a little bit of time with us in your busy schedule.

Chelle: Yeah, we so can't wait to chat with you again and hopefully see you in person again soon.

Laylla: If you would like to send us an email, send it to backonthebroomstick@gmail.com if you have any questions or comments. Please like, subscribe, give us some stars, put up a review. We really appreciate it and it helps the show out.

Chelle: And don't forget, we have a PO box. So send us a letter or something at Back on the Broomstick, PO Box 106, Salem, Massachusetts, 01970.

Laylla: We will see you next week. Be wise, be wicked.

Chelle: And 'tis the season to keep it witchy.
