Laylla: Welcome to Back on the Broomstick, a modern witches' spoken word grimoire, where two witchy friends from way back are reconnecting to their pagan roots after a long period of mundanity.

Chelle: Where we're walking the path of the wise and trying out all the latest spells, rituals, and magical theory in today's witchcraft and pagan practices.

Laylla: So grab your wand and your incense, your cauldron and your crystals, and join us as we get back on the broomstick.

Laylla: Hi, and welcome to Back on the Broomstick meditation series. I'm Laylla, and this is the Air Meditation companion episode to Elemental Series number 127, Air Energy: More Than Inspiration, Incense, and Intuition. So for this meditation, we'll be working with the breath, and your breath is very powerful, not just magically, but physically as well. And the meditation that we're presenting here will focus on your breath and breathing as a way to raise the energies associated with air, like tranquility, inspiration, and clarity of communication, as well as to help calm the body and to de-stress. In this meditation, I use two different breathing techniques, not just because of the connection of breath with elemental air energy, but because for some people, meditation can sometimes feel tricky, especially when our minds are racing or spiraling through to-do lists, old conversations, random worries, the crap we said six years ago. And one of the best ways to steady and to calm that wandering mind is by giving it a job. Focusing on your breath gives your brain something to do. It's like, "Oh, I'm breathing. I'm counting now." And just like that, there's no room for those intrusive thoughts to take over. Breathing also works as a relaxation tool because your body has this incredible system called the autonomic nervous system, and it includes two parts. One that kicks into gear when you're in danger or stress, called your sympathetic nervous system, you know, fight or flight. And one that soothes and restores you, and that one's called your parasympathetic nervous system. And by slowing our breath, especially when we make it deeper and more intentional, we send a signal to the body that says, "You're safe now. It's okay to let your guard down and relax." That makes your parasympathetic system respond by activating the rest and digest mode of your body. It releases chemicals to help you rest and relax. It's your body's way of reacting to being at home, being safe, and being in a relaxing environment. So our breath is our most accessible connection to the energy of air, of tranquility and inspiration. And with just a few intentional inhales and exhales, we can calm the chaos, invite clarity, and anchor ourselves in our body and in the present moment. In this meditation, we're going to work with two different breathing techniques. The first one is called the physiological sigh, or sometimes the parasympathetic sigh. And it's basically a double inhale and then a full exhale. You'll inhale twice through the nose, first like three-quarters of the way, and then one short, quick inhalation to finish filling your lungs. Then you exhale fully through your mouth, kind of like a deep sigh. And studies have shown that this type of breathing is one of the most effective breathing exercises to reduce stress and to elevate your mood. Now, the second breathing technique in the meditation is what I like to call mantra breathing. It's another type of breathing that activates your parasympathetic nervous system. In this one, your exhalation is about twice as long as your inhalation, and I like to pair that with a short mantra. "Be here now" by Ram Dass is one of my favorites, and we use that in this particular meditation. So for your inhalation, you'll say, "Be here" for about a count of two, and then say, "now" as you exhale for about a count of four. Don't stress the numbers in the counting too much, just try and let your body naturally breathe out for about twice as long as you breathe in. So inhale, "Be here," and then exhale, "now" on a long sigh. And always remember to listen to your body. If at any point you feel lightheaded or dizzy, just return to a natural breath. Stay with the meditation, but just breathe normally and pay attention to your breath as we work through the rest of the meditation. Breathwork should feel comfortable and should make you feel energized and uplifted, not overwhelmed, not stressed out. Just follow a rhythm that feels safe and steady for you. So find a quiet space where you can sit or lie comfortably, preferably one where you can feel the air move, maybe by a window, a fan, or if you're lucky, outside under the open sky. You could light a white or yellow candle if you'd like, burn some incense, have something scented nearby that you really like, a little bit of music, something gentle in the background. But if it's distracting, you don't need anything like that. The important part is to open your senses to the air around you. All right, once you've found that spot, let's begin. Settle into your spot, and when you're ready, if you feel comfortable doing so, close your eyes. Let your breath come just as it is. There's no need to change anything yet. Simply begin by noticing your breathing. As you breathe, picture or pretend that your mind is a clear blue sky with clouds of thought drifting by. Any thoughts that come, just let them be, let them pass. There's no need to follow them, no need to worry about them. Just observe them and let the wind carry them away. Pay attention to your breathing. Inhale through your nose, let that inhaled breath fill your belly. Exhale slowly through your mouth, and notice your breath as it passes your tongue and your lips. Hear the sound your breath makes in the world. Maybe it's quiet and small, or loud and takes up space, or somewhere in between. Just notice and breathe, and listen to my voice. Your breath is a powerful ally, an intimate connection to the energies of air, of thought and communication. We breathe most of the time without thinking about it, a powerful process that happens beyond our awareness. But if we pay attention, if we connect to our breathing and work with the air, we can unlock a powerful way to calm our body and open our mind. Now, pay attention again to your breath. Breathe in gently through your nose until your lungs are just about full. Take one quick sip of air to fully fill your lungs. Exhale slowly through your mouth, long, smooth, soft, like a breeze sighing through the trees. Breathe in slowly, and then breathe in quick to fill your lungs. Exhale slowly through parted lips, letting it go. One more time, inhale till your lungs are almost full, and then one last quick breath to fill them, and exhale slowly. Let it all melt out in the longest, slowest breath yet. Now breathe normally. As you breathe normally, you may feel your body soften. Relax and lower your shoulders. Relax and soften your jaw. Your breath becomes your connection to peace, to tranquility. Now, picture or pretend that you are standing in an open field at dawn. The sky above you is painted with pale blue and silver light, and the air is just beginning to stir, cool and crisp, carrying the scent of newness and possibility. You feel it graze your skin, gentle and invigorating. Let this imagined wind swirl around you now. Let it lift your thoughts like leaves on a breeze, carrying away the noise, the static, the stories that no longer serve. Soon, we will begin a mantra. A short inhale while saying, "Be here." Then exhale completely while saying, "now." Be here now. A mantra carried on the wind. Be here now. As you inhale, imagine you're breathing in clarity, like cool, clean air sweeping through the halls of your mind. Be here now. With each exhale, the fog lifts, your thoughts settle, perhaps a sense of openness begins to unfold. Continue to chant. Continue with your mantra. Breathe in short, exhale long. Be here now. Be here now. Ideas gently awaken. Words may begin to line up, ready to be spoken when the time is right. Be here, breathing and chanting with intention at your own natural pace. Be here now. You are riding the current of thought and spirit and breath. With each inhale, continue to call in tranquility, inspiration, clarity. And with each exhale, you continue to release what no longer serves. And now, when you are ready, take one deep, grounding breath, and exhale fully. Continue to breathe normally as the edges of your awareness begin to return slowly, kindly. Gently bring your awareness to the space around you, the surface supporting you, the air that wraps itself around you like a familiar shawl, the scents and sounds of life carried on a breeze. There is no rush. Let presence return like a whisper, not a command. Wiggle your fingers, your toes. Stretch your body. Notice the air against your skin, the rhythm of your natural breath, steady, calm, full of magic and life. Let the energy of air stay with you. Let it live in your lungs, in your voice, and in your thoughts. When you are ready, open your eyes and let every breath be a reminder. You are here, awake. You are inspired now. Take your time and slowly come to awareness. Stand up and stretch. Maybe have some water or some tea, something to eat, something to help you come back to your body, to here and now. And whenever you need or want to connect to the energy of air, to the magic of inspiration, of clarity and tranquility, just remember your breath. Breathe in, be here. Breathe out, now. Be here now. I hope this meditation helps you find clarity, inspiration, and maybe helps you find a moment to catch your breath. We'll be back on Friday with the next installment of our Elemental Series, working with the energy of elemental fire. So until then, you magical people, be wise, be wicked, and keep it witchy.
