Laylla: Fall on confession. I am not doing an asylum today. It's witchcraft. Hi and welcome to episode 11 of the stoned witches hour. It's 4:20 a.m. and I'm Laylla.

Chelle: And I'm Shell. And we're high.

Laylla: And we're high. I looked up the Independent State Mental Hospital and it's bullshit. I found the same blurb paragraph about hauntings and screams identical on 15 different websites and I could find nothing else, no firsthand accounts, no nothing, just kind of like that blurb advertising their museum and their like old wing. So I'm pretty sure it's bullshit.

Chelle: Kind of like how the episode where I ended up almost debunking Amityville Horror.

Laylla: Right, but even with the Amityville Horror, there's a shit ton of stories you could tell. Like people say they had stuff or this experience where this happened. With this one, I couldn't find any firsthand accounts. I mean, I found that line that said people had them, but I couldn't find any.

Chelle: Right. Right. Right. Right. Right.

Laylla: So I ended up It killed me, but I I ended up dropping it. I put in so much time researching it and I could But anyway,

Chelle: I think tonight where I'm going to take us is we're going to we're going to talk about the the coal mines in Pennsylvania. So welcome everybody. Let's get ghosty.

Laylla: And this evening, I'm going to take us on a true crime adventure. I know I said I was going to take us to an asylum. I lied. I am insane.

Chelle: Is it that you lied or that you were high and forgot?

Laylla: It's actually because they suck. So while I was looking around, I I stumbled upon a true crime story that I really wanted to tell. It It's kind of recent, which is not As you know, I like to go a little further in the past, but this one happened in 2006 and we're going to explore the the Scream murder of Cassie Stoddart in Idaho in Pocatello, Idaho.

Chelle: Ooh. Well, it it sounds like we uh we've got a a good episode coming up. We'll go to Idaho, we'll go to Pennsylvania, we'll get high. How can you go wrong?

Laylla: We'll smoke lots of good weed. Oh yeah. So hang out with us witches while we smoke enough weed to kill a rhino as one of our favorite anonymous listeners says.

Chelle: I still love that guy and I love that quote. If you are still listening there friend, smoke it like a rhino. I am. I am.

Laylla: Smoke like a rhino? I don't know. I smoke like a something.

Chelle: Actually, his quote was he smokes enough to kill a rhino. That's a lot of smoke.

Laylla: That is a lot of smoke.

Chelle: Yeah. He is my kindred spirit in the smoking world.

Laylla: There you go.

Chelle: We both like to smoke enough to take down large mammals.

Laylla: Your your pot bowl twin flame.

Chelle: My pot bowl twin flame.

Laylla: There you go.

Chelle: I wonder if he's a stuffer and a shover.

Laylla: Chelle, don't don't don't. We're We're talking about shafts enough this evening. Let's not go there. We do have a not safe for work on this podcast, but we should also let people know that we have the humor of immature 12 year olds.

Chelle: Yeah, but you know, in the with the spin of late 40s, early 50 year old females.

Laylla: There you go. Yeah. So completely inappropriate is what you're saying. Okay.

Chelle: So you know how I always say that I am old fashioned and tried and true glass pipe, blah blah blah.

Laylla: Glass pipe, that's your answer to everything, glass pipe.

Chelle: My my glass pipe theory here. So I was at a story yesterday and happened to see some stuff catch my eyeballs. You know that that new fangled trend of the silicone pieces.

Laylla: Mhm.

Chelle: So I picked me up and let me tell you. Part of it was the price, $9.99. You can't beat a pipe for $9.99.

Laylla: Wow, that's a that's a good price right there. That's an excellent price.

Chelle: I don't care what it's made out of, wood, ceramic, glass, whatever. For $9.99, when you need a pipe, rock it. Take what you can get for that price.

Laylla: Mhm.

Chelle: So this is a beautiful green and and it has a lid. Oh how cute. It has a lid.

Laylla: Oh, I like a lid. A lid is nice.

Chelle: You know, I think it was between the fact that it was green and black and the fact that it had a lid that half sold me right there. And then after I got it, I'm like, oh my god, it's got a carb. This thing is like rubber and has a carb. No.

Laylla: I'm impressed.

Chelle: So this this is what I got yesterday and I'm already in love. I'm already in love.

Laylla: How easy, nice and easy to clean. You don't have to worry about it breaking in your bag or your pocket. It's got a cap.

Chelle: Well, and also when I put it in my pocket, I don't have to worry about, oh shit, did I get it all the way out? Am I going to fucking burn a hole in my pocket, lose my half half my weed that's in my pipe?

Laylla: Right, exactly.

Chelle: Or then have stinky pocket. The lid, the lid I was like the lid. And I thought when I saw this, I was like, you know, I've always wanted to try it. Their bong is good and it has a lid.

Laylla: I love the lid. How often do you want to go like hiking or something and you want to bring a bowl, but where are you going to put it? You can't bring a packed bowl with you, but if it's got a lid, that's nice.

Chelle: Well, that's what I'm saying. You know, if you if you pack a full tight bowl, which we all know that I'm a super packer, like I'm an over packer. I'm like a stuff and you know, a stuff and shove. You're all dainty putting it in there and I'm just like stuff and shove, stuff and shove. So when you got a big fatty packed and then you need to put it in your pocket, you're not going to you you're not going to lose a flake because I'm a waste not want not and I'm telling you, if I drop a tiny little flake, I bend over and pick it up and put it back in.

Laylla: Same, unless it's carpet.

Chelle: Well,

Laylla: As we know.

Chelle: Yeah, you. Oh, that still hurts me. That still hurts me. But so so yeah, I I I'm very happy with my my new my new silicone piece.

Laylla: Same. I love that silicone pipe. I am talking to Wazoo, the grand Wazoo of Wazoo Glass to replace my my woody pipe, my Gandalf woody. Considering that he's a fucking amazing artist, it's it's awesome. I cannot yet afford to get one of his bubblers though. So that's on the list. Someday I will get a bubbler, but we are definitely replacing the woody because that is my favorite pipe of all time. It's perfect.

Chelle: I I like his style better than the typical like birchwood looking pipes you see. He definitely puts a better flare on it.

Laylla: Yeah. Oh man, it looks fantastic. I cannot tell you how many times people saw that pipe and were like, what kind of wood is that? Like, no, it's glass.

Chelle: Yep. Yep.

Laylla: And he makes them with cute little mushrooms on them, you know, little caterpillars and little bugs and stuff.

Chelle: They look foresty.

Laylla: They do. They do. They're so great.

Chelle: They look foresty.

Laylla: I love them. Everyone should have one. And they smoke fantastically. The way I really like the long Gandalfs because it gives it a little bit of you know, it helps to kind of cool the smoke a little bit when it has to kind of go that far. That why I like bongs, helps to kind of cool down the smoke when you're taking big rips or off those shells, big stuffed bowls. And so you need you know, you don't want that smoke to burn your throat so much. So it was nice having that extra stem. So

Chelle: Well, to all of our listeners out there today, today's public service announcement brought to you by Shell is if you smoke anywhere outside or off your property, you need a silicone pipe with a cap because you can't go wrong with a silicone pipe with a cap. You will not You will not break it. You will not lose your weed. Like win win people, win win people. Silicone pipe.

Laylla: I am so impressed. The glass goddess is suggesting silicone. That's that's an endorsement right there.

Chelle: Now we are going to have to do an update this an update endorsement once I get to the point where I need to clean it because that's the true test.

Laylla: How easy is it to clean?

Chelle: And and you know, the store clerk said all this is so easy and he was like showing me how you can like squeeze it out like you'd squeeze the rest of your toothpaste out.

Laylla: Oh damn.

Chelle: You're telling me this. I'm hearing this, but I need proof of the pudding. When it is time and I am physically trying to handle that shit on my own, is it easier or is it not easy?

Laylla: You are resonating that pipe fast and curious.

Chelle: You know how I am.

Laylla: I know how you do. Oh yeah.

Chelle: So we will we will have an update endorsement once I've had to clean it.

Laylla: Oh, I'm curious. All right, cool. You might even get me to buy one.

Chelle: Stay tuned for the cleaning silicone episode.

Laylla: All right, I am down. I'm paying attention to that shit.

Chelle: But I feel very accomplished and I feel very 21st century pot smoker now that I have a silicone pipe.

Laylla: I know. Look at you. Getting something all new and different and like updated beyond Give me a glass pipe.

Chelle: So I was going to talk about the Pennsylvania coal mines today.

Laylla: Those are just scary on their own.

Chelle: Yeah, well, I know that I I I know that this story isn't going to be necessarily something you're going to love because your fear of confined spaces.

Laylla: Yeah, thanks for that Shell.

Chelle: The definition of a coal mine is a confined space underground.

Laylla: Yeah, I see what you're doing here. Uh-huh.

Chelle: Do what I can, do what I can. But you know, in in in Pennsylvania, if if folks don't know this, back in in the 1800s, a lot of what fueled America at that point in time was coal. You know, we we didn't have natural gas or didn't have the the natural gas that we're using now. The the oil production we have now, um we relied a lot on on coal.

Laylla: Didn't like the trains run on it, the the ships, the steam ships and everything?

Chelle: And and people would use it to heat their homes as well. People would have, you know, coal buckets and they'd have to shovel a couple scoops of coal in before bed to heat the house overnight.

Laylla: Oh yeah, and a lot of the more rural places in in New York and PA, you still have like the coal chutes in the cellar.

Chelle: Yep. Yep. So you know, coal was was a big thing and a lot of that. You know, I'm no geologist, obviously. Any of our listeners who have who've been following us since the beginning know that I am definitely no geologist, but I feel that the majority of Pennsylvania is is pretty much got coal mines under it. It's like that state was built on top of a big nugget of freaking coal.

Laylla: Right, and they're just honeycombed all over the place.

Chelle: And they And that's the thing, the whole state is one big freaking honeycomb. And actually, probably the majority of the mining is not too far uh from from where where you and I are are are from. About an hour down into Pennsylvania in the Wilkes-Barre Scranton area, uh Lackawanna County is the uh probably the most famous Well, there's a couple famous ones, but for for our our eastern part of Pennsylvania, the most famous ones is the Lackawanna coal mines. Actually, as a child, and I know I have told you this before and you thought this was the creepiest thing on the planet, you can actually go and do tours of the coal mines and as a child, my father used to take us down to the coal mines um and then when I had

Laylla: Your dad's idea of fun and everyone else's idea of fun are like so far different.

Chelle: And then when my when my when my children were small

Laylla: Did he take them too?

Chelle: My father took my children to the Pennsylvania coal mines in Lackawanna.

Laylla: Your father should be stopped. The man's a monster.

Chelle: You get a certificate saying that you made it out of the coal mines.

Laylla: Like a live.

Chelle: Yeah. Yeah.

Laylla: Yeah, that's Hey kids, if you make it out alive, you're going to get a certificate. Woohoo.

Chelle: Yeah. You know, at the time you think it's cool, but as an adult looking back, you're like, wow, you know, there's a good vote of confidence. I got a certificate for living through it.

Laylla: Right.

Chelle: But it was cool. It was It was very cool. There actually is a a coal mine that caught on fire, I want to say in like the 70s or something.

Laylla: Oh yeah.

Chelle: It's still burning.

Laylla: Still burning. You can still go there now. There's houses. The place is so creepy.

Chelle: And what it looks like is it looks like almost like smoke is just oozing from the ground. It is. But it looks like that and it's creepy.

Laylla: Uh it's it's like some sort of something out of a dystopian future nightmare film.

Chelle: And it's just randomly happening in Pennsylvania in

Laylla: And there's nothing they can do about it. They say that it's going to keep burning for like the longest time.

Chelle: Basically until it burns all the coal. You know, we could have probably heated America for 20 years on that freaking burn. That's a good fire.

Laylla: Yeah, that is some kind of fire.

Chelle: So as you can imagine, you know, for decades and decades and decades and decades and decades, there is countless people that worked in the mines, dug the mines, were mine employees. And you know, back in in the 1800s, we 're not talking There was no OSHA. There was not safety cruise, you know. So to even sit here and try to fathom the amount of tragic deaths that happened in each one of these coal mines is I I can't even.

Laylla: I know. I can't even either. I mean, one of their um methods of one of their safety methods back then was literally the canary in the coal mine. Literally a bird in a cage to tell them if the the breathing if the levels of oxygen had gotten so low as to be unsafe.

Chelle: Yeah. Yeah.

Laylla: That was their idea of a safety measure.

Chelle: But I mean, and and because of that, you know, I mean, it's it's impossible to say uh with any degree of certainty how many people literally have died in those coal mines for for whatever reason, cave in, um lack of oxygen, uh explosion, fire, whatever.

Laylla: Even today, you're still today hearing about miners getting trapped or killed in mines. And this is now with all the things that we have now. I can't even imagine how danger it was back in the 1800s.

Chelle: I mean, I I know there's been a couple more. Um I feel like there was one more recent in in Asia that I am forgetting, but you know, a few years back that big one in Chile. What was it? 22 coal miners or something like that.

Laylla: Yeah, they they made a movie out of it. I think the the more recent one as well too.

Chelle: Yeah. So I know there was the one in Chile and then like a years two after that was one somewhere in Asia. And why is this shit happening in in this time in society?

Laylla: Yeah.

Chelle: Just Just the astronomical amount of deaths. I mean, we could just sit here and talk for a hundred years about ghosts in the mines. I mean, just imagine if every single day when you went to work, it was essentially a stare down with the Grim Reaper. That's what these people faced.

Laylla: I can't imagine. And And you know my fear of enclosed spaces, just the thought of having to work in an environment like that. I mean, they put children and small people and I'm a small people down in some of those in some of those enclosed places and I I couldn't handle that. I mean, it's definitely not something I don't even like thinking about. Um but the the things that the way that they kept these people practically indentured and the way they treated people was was terrible, awful. And they're still doing that. I mean, and I don't know. I am going to admit that right now. I don't know, but do we need coal? Like do we even need that anymore? Aren't there other things that we could use that not only would cause less loss of life, but less

Chelle: Horrible.

Laylla: be less damaging to the environment? Why have we not corrected this yet?

Chelle: Because we're greedy.

Laylla: Oh, there you hit the nail on the head Shell. Ding ding ding ding ding. On that note, I'm going to pack a bowl and cry about capitalism. Anyway.

Chelle: I mean, that's that's that's definitely one of those instances ask a stupid question, get a stupid answer kind of thing.

Laylla: No, you're right. I did I asked a stupid question and you gave me no, the perfect answer, the very blunt, honest answer because we're greedy.

Chelle: It's because we're greedy.

Laylla: It's You're right.

Chelle: But you know, there's there's a lot of of shafts that are are standout shafts for hauntings.

Laylla: Mhm.

Chelle: One is called the And And you know, you you beautiful folks from Pennsylvania, if I am pronouncing these towns wrong

Laylla: And you probably will and none of them are pronounced the way you think.

Chelle: That's what that's what a high Shell does. It's all about phonetics, not proper pronunciation.

Laylla: We're from that area and I bet we'll pronounce half of these incorrectly because you're like, oh, that should have the French French pronunciation. No. No, it should not. It should have the Pennsylvania pronunciation.

Chelle: Right. Right. Right. But you know, being of Dutch origin, let me let me see if I can get a grip on some of these names.

Laylla: There you go.

Chelle: So you know, one of one of the the shafts that Cuz you know, basically if you think of a honeycomb, all around the state, there's there's these specific shafts and points as you want to say.

Laylla: I'm I'm not going to make any shaft jokes. I will stay away from those as much as I can. I'm trying. I'm trying not to make any shaft jokes. I'm I'm I'm not I'm just high enough. I'm not so high that I'm going to do it. So There you go.

Chelle: Okay. So I want to talk about the Neshanic shaft.

Laylla: There we go. See? And now I'm not even giggling at shaft. I'm being so good.

Chelle: And it is located in the Neshanic Township, which is in Lawrence County, PA.

Laylla: And I'm sure if we are saying Neshanic incorrectly, we'll get an email. I'm sure.

Chelle: We will. Um maybe from one of our good friends like Tom and Mike.

Laylla: Yes, please do Tom, Mike. If we are saying Neshanic incorrectly, shoot us an email. Check out their podcast Storytime with Tom and Mike. They're two lifelong friends who entertain themselves and you with stories of their lives, crazy theories, and general idiocy. We'll be on their show on March 25th.

Chelle: Or Tom's going to be on our show here in a few weeks. So you can correct us then. Correct us on our on our Pennsylvania Dutch names. So um in the fall of 1898, so just about a hundred years before um my son was born, it was reported uh that there was a ghost of one of the miners haunting that particular mine. Now, you know, these people go to work every day um in in life or death situations to feed their families. You know, these are hard working folk. This ghost that that that they they see um would enter the mine with his pick and his lamp every night. And he would work the mine. His little ghost self would work his little ghosty ass off and work the mine all night.

Laylla: So even dead, he couldn't get a break from the mine. He had to go in there every night with his little pick and mine some coal.

Chelle: Yep, and then he would emerge from the shaft each dawn and then vanish into thin air.

Laylla: Wow. Spend your afterlife working your shitty job.

Chelle: At the time, um miners theorized that it was the spirit of Elijah Bowalker, a worker who disappeared inside the mine a few years earlier and just he went to work one day and that was it, poof gone.

Laylla: What? They didn't even find his body?

Chelle: They don't know what happened. Never found his body. He just went in the mine one day to work, never came out, never know what happened to him. Cuz you got to remember, they didn't they might have gone in as a crew, but you know, Joe Blow is 50 ft that way and then this guy is over here. Like they weren't There was nobody system.

Laylla: So Elijah goes down the shaft and he goes off on his own to go mine coal and no one ever finds him again. They never found anything.

Chelle: Poof gone.

Laylla: When did they start seeing his ghost?

Chelle: A few years later. But here here's here's the bitch. For some reason, they believed that he was murdered.

Laylla: Wow. Wow. So not just a disappearance, but possibly potentially a murder.

Chelle: So it doesn't necessarily And they And they have they they were never able to to kind of pinpoint either way, but because there was there was no known explosions, there was no cave ins, there was no body. You know, it's not like he just lost oxygen and dropped dead and was like there. Like poof gone without a trace, which is what led them to say, well, you know, maybe it was murder because you know, no cave in, no explosion, no flooding, you know, no dead from you know, lack of oxygen, whatever. You know, just poof You know, just poof gone. Although I have my own theory that you know, the dragons came and had him as a little snack and then like kind of burrowed back into their little corner. Yeah, so that's my theory, but you know, different episode.

Laylla: There you go. Hey, it's as good as any That would explain why nobody was found, you know, crunch crunch gone.

Chelle: Exactly. Exactly. Um but here's the crazy thing. To this day, to this day, there are many people who believe that the Summit View Drive in Neshanic Township is still haunted. It is kind of situated along abandoned uh mine entrances that were first obviously built in the uh late 1700s, early 1800s. And one of the local legends is that near the mine entrance in the mid 1900s uh like about 1950s, 1960s ish, group of kids playing in front of the entrance. And all of the kids It wasn't just one kid heard this. They all heard blood curdling screams coming from the mines. And when they went and told their family um who then You know how towns are uh rural towns. You know, you tell one person, the whole family or the whole town knows by dinner time.

Laylla: Before they got done telling the story, neighbors three blocks over knew.

Chelle: So everyone theorized that the children were potentially hearing the anguish cries of Elijah Bowalker being murdered.

Laylla: Oh wow. So they think You know, we've talked before about traumatic offense kind of being a movie that replays over and over again. So they think maybe those kids heard that ghosty imprint.

Chelle: Right. Right. Right. Right.

Laylla: Oh wow.

Chelle: Because Because you know, if you're talking 1950s, 1960s,

Laylla: Right.

Chelle: you're talking you know, anywhere from 50 to 70 years after after Elijah disappeared. So you know, you're not talking like five years later kind of thing. Um you're you're talking decades later. So it it's it's they they feel that it could have been a murder based on never finding him. And then these ghostly blood curdling screams they think link back to him and the fact that it could have been murder and not a work related death.

Laylla: Might be an interesting case of a ghost helping solve their own missing person's case.

Chelle: But you know that I I think the thing that that grabbed me You know, it's it's a They're They're You know, I'm going to talk about a couple other mine uh mines down there, but this particular snippet story caught me because every night you see that ghost at the entrance with his lantern and his pick going in and every dawn, you see that ghost coming out of that entrance and vanishing into thin air. That guy doesn't know. He's done working man. You're done.

Laylla: You know, have you ever done something so often that you can't get it out of your head? You're constantly day and night, you're just thinking it and

Chelle: And that's what he's doing.

Laylla: You know, it must have been that kind of job and maybe he died so suddenly that he's just doing that same thing over and over and over again.

Chelle: His his soul, his spirit never broke the cycle between life and death. And I I feel like this poor guy's soul feels like, all right, it's morning, got to get up and go to work.

Laylla: Yeah, and now and he's just stuck there. Wow.

Chelle: But then it then it seems like once he's in there, the towns people are hearing him relive his murder every day with those screams.

Laylla: Oh wow. Wow. What would cause someone to be trapped like that? That's sad.

Chelle: And you know, and it could be that that horrific instant out of the blue death.

Laylla: Right. Right. So so surprising. Like you said that he doesn't know he's dead yet.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: You know, he's still just going to work and he just happens to be going to work on his last day every time.

Chelle: Right, like Groundhog's Day.

Laylla: Ugh. Oh, like the shittiest coal miner Groundhog Day ever.

Chelle: Yeah. So you know, I I want to hop over um to to Belleview shaft, um another shaft. Uh this one's in Scranton, about an hour or so south of where where we're from.

Laylla: So you're saying Pennsylvania has multiple shafts.

Chelle: Lots of shafts. They're long. They're very long shafts.

Laylla: Now now listen listen to this fucked up statistic. So so again, we're we're bouncing over to Belleview shaft in Scranton. During the 19th century, the mines of the Wyoming coalfields experienced an average of five fatalities each month. Five fatalities a month.

Chelle: Five a month. I'm not going to work at those odds.

Laylla: No, that's an unacceptable death count. How can you be like, oh, that's more than one a week. That's more than one a week.

Chelle: Well, you know, these these are people that that was the main industry in Pennsylvania. That was their only source of income. I I don't think a lot of these coal miners would have chosen that job. I think that job was chosen for them. I need money. I have to go work in the coal mine.

Laylla: Where were they going to go? You know, their family, their their father, their father's father had worked the coal mines. They didn't have enough money to go anywhere. Their family was in debt. They had to just help support the family. There was no way for them to go anywhere. They were kept in a cycle of poverty.

Chelle: Well, and you know, Pennsylvania is is is a lot It's made up a lot like New York State. You know, if if you're not familiar with Pennsylvania, you know, everybody's heard of Philly and you know, and in in Pittsburgh and Scranton, Wilkes-Barre. But you know, what what people don't realize if they've never been there, if you are not in the Wilkes-Barre Scranton area, everything beyond city limits is like desolate. If you are not in Philadelphia, everything outside of city limits is desolate. Like dense forested land, farming, like Pennsylvania is not California. If you did not live in a big city, there was not a lot of

Laylla: Opportunity.

Chelle: Industry, opportunity um you know, you kind of had to do the job that was available in the little small shit in town that you were that you were born and raised in. And so a lot of these people coal mining was their only option. Their only option of employment.

Laylla: The education was bad there. The opportunities were bad there. They they were pretty much kept there.

Chelle: Right. But the coal mining was good.

Laylla: Yeah. For some people.

Chelle: So, you know, five fatalities a month, that was kind of

Laylla: They just accepted that. That's just the way it was.

Chelle: They just accepted that.

Laylla: Wow.

Chelle: And records showed that in 1872 there was 67 fatalities. Now 52 weeks in a year, 67 fatalities.

Laylla: That's well more than one a week.

Chelle: Yeah. Yeah. And in 1877 there were 40. Um in 1879 there were 59.

Laylla: Wow.

Chelle: This is and this is all just in this one shaft.

Laylla: That's awful. That's awful. That is not a good shaft.

Chelle: This is not in in all the mines in Pennsylvania collectively. This is just in this Belleview shaft in Scranton.

Laylla: Ugh. Wow.

Chelle: And death death did not discriminate by age. Um records show that the youngest victims to die in the mines and and yeah I I feel bad even telling you this cuz I know your heart's going to break. They didn't you know, when your family needed money, if your father died in the coal mine and if you had a son that was physically able

Laylla: He just went there.

Chelle: Somebody has to feed the family. So, some of the youngest victims to die um one in particular was a 10-year-old Evan Jones.

Laylla: Oh, that does break my heart. Oh, Evan.

Chelle: He was killed November 1st, 1879. There was also a a John Murray uh who was 11, um Joseph Narny who was 11. These these people

Laylla: Those poor absolute babies. Those poor babies.

Chelle: There was a a a Noah Morgan who was 12 and died in a mine on Christmas Eve.

Laylla: Oh, no. Oh, that poor baby.

Chelle: Yeah. So, um you know, these weren't just these weren't just adults. These were children as well.

Laylla: Yeah, again that little people they I think there's a predominant number. Like you said if if the if the primary breadwinner died, they would go to the next able-bodied male very often. And and the smaller the better to be honest. They liked kids.

Chelle: Right. Cuz they could fit. Cuz they could fit.

Laylla: That's right.

Chelle: And and and you know, we just talked about about the guy in the other shaft, Elijah there, that like you know, he might his his his spirit was so shocked at the death that he's still there.

Laylla: Right.

Chelle: Imagine being a 10-year-old boy who doesn't really have They don't even understand the gravity of this job.

Laylla: Oh my goodness. No, no.

Chelle: With all those children dying um you know, over those couple years I mentioned, we're talking at least off the top, you know, there's just that shaft alone. Over over you know, a short period of time, less than 10 years, a couple hundred people died in that shaft alone, including a bunch of children. The sightings and the voices and the apparitions got so bad that in 1872 the Scranton Republican did a report on the hauntings of the Belleview Shaft. And according to the miners, the ghosts seemed to be roughly 6 ft in height. They kind of were made of like a white smoky vapory substance.

Laylla: Oh, wow.

Chelle: Your traditional like ghosty misty vapor ghost.

Laylla: Ghosty ghost. Like your typical atypical Hollywood style ghost. And what the Scranton Republican reported in their newspaper article, they quoted miners as saying pistols were fired at them. And although many shots passed through him, he seems unvulnerable to pistol balls. He has frightened the mules and driven the men from their chambers, threatening individual persons and produced a general consternation among the workmen. So, basically there was one particular ghost who was basically trying to scare people out of the mines.

Chelle: Terrorizing people. And they shot at him. Is that You know, I hear all the time about people from Florida trying to shoot at the tornadoes and or that the trying to shoot at the hurricanes and everything. Is shooting at a ghost kind of like trying to shoot at a storm?

Laylla: I know I'm high, but what do you think you're going to accomplish shooting a ghost?

Chelle: Right. I mean, doesn't everybody know but even back in the 1800s everyone knew that ghosts were not corporeal. Like there was no body there. Why would you shoot at it?

Laylla: I don't know.

Chelle: I don't understand the logic there. I also am high and I still don't get it.

Laylla: I don't know.

Chelle: Maybe that's why I don't get it.

Laylla: Maybe maybe they weren't high enough. Maybe they weren't high enough.

Chelle: That's right. I mean, I I regularly see white misty clouds floating around me. I don't shoot at them.

Laylla: You know, I I kind of look at you know, if you if you if you look at it from a witchy point of view, which is obviously not the point of view these folks were looking at it from.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: But if you look at it from a witchy point of view, when I hear this little snippet story, the first thing that comes to my mind is someone was killed in that mine and it's trying to save people from going in and scaring them away.

Chelle: Trying to scare them out.

Laylla: You know, kind of they get out get out you you know, don't come in here.

Chelle: This is a dangerous place. Back off.

Laylla: Yeah.

Chelle: Whereas um a a good non-ghost believing folk are looking as that is a threat cuz it said right in the article they they found it as a threat to their individual person. I'm not sure I believe that twist of the story. I almost tend to think that that spirit was trying to warn them off from working in the mines.

Laylla: Well, you might be right. You might be right.

Chelle: You know, and they just took it in the opposite context.

Laylla: Took it differently. Yeah, cuz it does try to sound it does sound like it's trying to get them to go away.

Chelle: You know, it frightened the mules away. It and it it said you know, driven the men from their chambers. He was trying to scare them out of the mind chambers. So, I my take on it from a witchy point of view is that that spirit was actually trying to help them and their interpretation was it was threatening. So, then you know, the Taylor mine in Taylor, Pennsylvania in 1906 miners refused to enter portions of the Taylor mine because they were fearful of ghosts described as hollow-eyed white-robed illumination forms of men bearing light that had no flicker.

Laylla: Interesting. Interesting that the different variety of ghosts that people see here, the different types.

Chelle: Right. Several miners attempted to approach the ghost, but it was said it would disappear every time they got close.

Laylla: Well, that 's better than trying to shoot it. At least that makes more sense.

Chelle: Right. Over in Taylor we got the peacekeeper ghost hunter miners. But yeah, they were they were actually eager to try to get to the bottom of the the haunting mystery in Taylor. And a number of the miners stationed themselves around the perimeter of the haunted chamber because they basically wanted I don't know if they thought they were going to like capture it and have a conversation like we're surrounding you, ghostly figure. Like I don't even know what the what the end game was with that one. But the ghost did appear floating around the Ring of Miners and then vanished. And again this was also reported by the Scranton Republican. And according to the Scranton Republican, the doubtful ones were now convinced and fled the mine in terror forever.

Laylla: Interesting. So, maybe this one's trying to scare people away too.

Chelle: Right. And then and then you know, we kind of bounce over to the the Black Diamond Colliery in Luzerne in Luzerne County. And this one these miners were definitely more fearless. And they kind of had the if this is haunted, we got work to do. You know, you ghosties do your thing cuz we got some coal to do. So, there was a miner that ended up being confined to his bed after shock from seeing a ghost because part of that fearlessness was disbelief.

Laylla: Oh, right. So, they were like this isn't really happening. And so this guy walked up to it and got so scared he ended up being like bedridden.

Chelle: Or you know, some of the other shafts you have you have these ghosts that are terrorizing the miners and driving them from the shafts. This guy is like, meh, you do your thing, I'm going to do my thing because you're not real. Well, that didn't work out for him. So, he ended up yeah being confined to his bed because he was so in shock when he for himself saw one with his very own eyes. So, all the townspeople then assumed that it had to be a scary ghost if big old Mr. Rough and Tough got scared into his bed.

Laylla: Yeah.

Chelle: Yeah, right.

Laylla: Scare the biggest guy in town and a lot more people are going to believe you.

Chelle: And his name was Anthony Stensky. And this was in 1912 and he again he worked at the Black Diamond Colliery, but he was found unconscious on the floor of the chamber. And he later claimed that he'd seen a ghost whose fingertips glowed with fire.

Laylla: What the hell? Oh, that sounds like a coal mine ghost for sure.

Chelle: And they called it the Flaming Phantom and it scared so many workers at the mine that they actually shut down for a day because no one wanted to see the apparition that Stensky had seen.

Laylla: So, skeptic Stensky sees this Flaming Finger apparition, but he's not the only one. Other people have seen this same thing.

Chelle: Wow.

Laylla: And then the then everybody got scared cuz if they didn't see it for themselves, they were freaked out by the fact that Mr. Rough and Tumble Stensky was freaked out.

Chelle: Yeah, if the skeptic sees it and is scared so scared that this Rough and Tough guy is bedridden, that would scare me. I'd be scared.

Laylla: But isn't it kind of weird? So, you know, some of these coal mines are you know, we're we're kind of bouncing around shaft to shaft here, but you know, one of Okay, on the next episode of Chelle and Laylla go to porn hub.

Chelle: I have been so good. I have been sitting over here smoking my bong, being so good. Every time you said shaft, I just grinned to myself and I said nothing. I said nothing.

Laylla: And now we're bouncing shaft to shaft. Okay, sorry. All right. I've I've now put the the adolescent boy in my brain in timeout. Go ahead.

Chelle: So, you know, in in in one chamber How about we'll we'll move to chamber. We'll call them chambers, but

Laylla: Thank you. I appreciate that. Everybody knows we're talking shafts.

Chelle: You know, one is a is a miner who goes to work every day. One is a ghost you can't shoot through. One is a flamethrower.

Laylla: What is going on down here? Is there something I mean, I guess that makes sense.

Chelle: But not every shaft is seeing the same type of visual apparition. You know, there's a difference between a coal miner ghost going to work every day and freaking fiery fingertip guy. You know what I mean?

Laylla: Yeah, I do. And and there there's also a difference between that and like your average you know, rocking chair in the attic bedroom ghost. I mean,

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: I mean, coal mines themselves kind of look like the depths of hell. So, is it that? Is it the environment? Is it the abuse these people went through? What is it that makes these these apparitions so scary, so hell-like?

Chelle: Well, in 1913 bouncing over to the Chickasaw mine in Kittanning, Pennsylvania in the Pittsburgh Daily Post on March 10th, 1913 the article read men refused to work in ghost haunted mine. Apparitions frighten miners and runs trip of loaded cars to entrance.

Laylla: I don't blame them.

Chelle: These things were happening so often in every single shaft across the state.

Laylla: Right.

Chelle: It was making it into the things like the Pittsburgh Daily Post, the Scranton Republican. Like this was actually making news at the time.

Laylla: It was happening enough that it was it was disrupting work and it was causing work stoppages. And And you know, that itself would be news. And then to find out what's causing those work stoppages, I imagine it was quite the sensation.

Chelle: So, you know, here at the at the Chickasaw mine they would get loaded car loaded you know, little coal cars on the little coal train. They would get the the cars loaded with coal. And then all of a sudden they would just randomly tip over and all the coal would be dumped all over. And this Listen to this. Listen to this. And And this is why I am fascinated. The Chickasaw mine what was printed in the Pittsburgh Daily Post was men rushed from the mine with terrifying stories of an apparition of a half man, half beast carrying a luminous a luminous dinner pail and going chamber to chamber ordering them to quit work.

Laylla: Wow.

Chelle: The men did not seek a second warning and were reported to have dropped their tools and fled on the spot.

Laylla: Well, shit, I wouldn't wait for a second warning either. I'm sorry, a ghost with a glowing lunch box comes and tells you it's time to quit work. You fucking quit work.

Chelle: Now we're we we we move to a different shaft and this guy's half man, half beast carrying a dinner pail. I'm just fascinated that the ghost stories from every chamber across the state, they're seeing such visually different apparitions.

Laylla: Yeah, groups of Rough and Tumble coal mining guys from coal mining families are seeing a half man, half beast. And everyone that was working that day described the same thing. That's wild.

Chelle: Right. Right. This isn't like one guy crying wolf or nothing. This is like groups of workers, townspeople.

Laylla: Right. They're like the guys from Armageddon, right?

Chelle: Yeah. These are badass motherfuckers getting scared to death.

Laylla: No, wait. Those were those were oil drillers. Sorry, coal miners, but

Chelle: Are they all called roughnecks or is that offensive? I'll have to look that up before I put it in the podcast. I don't know. I don't know. But you know, I I just there's more mines, there's more shafts, um there's more stories, there's more hauntings. But these particular ones I wanted to talk about today because you know, like I said the fact these these particular ones drew me in. Not that they were long spectacular events, but like the variation of what people were seeing, I just wanted to I I wanted to not only kind of convey that to you, but I wanted to convey to our listeners the vast difference of the type of paranormal activity that is happening to this day across the state of Pennsylvania where these mine shafts are located.

Laylla: You know, you're talking about the differences, but I can't get the sameness, the similarities out of my head. You know, that so many people would see the same weird apparition. They'd be able to describe it. They all talked about what it what it said, what it looked like, you know, what was going on. And And it just blows my mind that even though each particular mine may have had its own apparition, its own flavor of ghost, that particular ghost was seen by so many different people, even skeptics that were so frightened that they would stop work right then and there or were taken they were bedridden because they were so scared. That That's kind of interesting.

Chelle: Right. Right. Right. But you know, I mean, I just I I I think that that every coal mine, um every shaft, every chamber in the state of Pennsylvania in my opinion has to have some sort of however minimal activity based on the mass quantities of fatalities that happen in every one of those shafts and chambers.

Laylla: Yeah, that's that's wild. And And just because you know, there's there's a lot of different theories on uh types of stone and and things in the earth. And you know, just digging into the earth like that has to Like you said, it's honeycombed. What type of you know, what type of vortexes or what type of things have we created there that might trap energy or might hold energy there?

Chelle: Right. Right. Right. Absolutely.

Laylla: Or or have released like that Dragon movie we were kind of talking about. Like what did we dig into that we didn't understand maybe?

Chelle: You know, we talk we talked a little bit at the beginning and I didn't necessarily focus on that um for my story today, but there is also the shaft that's still on fire. I can't even imagine what that town is like because that town had to be abandoned.

Laylla: It is abandoned. I think there are still one or two people or families, one or two houses that are still um occupied, but I believe most people uh got bought out and and had to leave. It's just too unhealthy.

Chelle: But I I just I I get the vibe of almost like an East Coast ghost town.

Laylla: Mhm. Very much so. I think they they try to keep people away from there now.

Chelle: Yeah. Yeah.

Laylla: For health reasons. Yeah.

Chelle: Yeah. You can find pictures online. There's all sorts of things that were painted on the roads and stuff like that. People's tires would melt on the roads. It's crazy. It's just wild.

Laylla: Air there is is borderline toxic.

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: But you know, I I definitely think it's a cool place. I I I've always been fascinated by the the Pennsylvania coal mines due to my father taking me there when I was a child.

Chelle: Yeah, due to your dad's interesting idea of a good time.

Laylla: I have my certificate of authenticity. So, yeah, you know, if if you're a East Coaster, if you're from the state of Pennsylvania, the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, check out the coal mines, man. If you're if you're looking if you're in for a good spook. And if you do, if any of our listeners do go to the Pennsylvania coal mines, if you have an experience, shoot us an email. I'd love to hear uh uh uh a personal experience from one of our listeners from the coal mines because I'm I'm very intrigued by the variety of apparitions.

Chelle: Oh gosh, yeah. Maybe for our next, you know, it happened you know, it haunted to me.

Laylla: I love that.

Chelle: It haunted to me. It haunted to me. You know, maybe on our next uh you know, listener stories episode we'll read your haunted ghost tunnel shaft, ghost coal mine, coal mine shaft. I don't know. Your haunted coal mine stories. So, yeah, send them on in if you've got them.

Laylla: If you're going to ask people to send in stories about their haunted shafts, then I am then I'm going to ask for stories of your haunted movies.

Chelle: Yes, we want all of the haunted stories. Send them in.

Laylla: I actually went to my most favorite store yesterday.

Chelle: Ooh, what's the name of your most favorite store?

Laylla: My most favorite store is called Happy Valley.

Chelle: Oh, I like the name.

Laylla: Yeah, and actually of that they have I don't know if you see this. No, you can't see it.

Chelle: Oh, a bag. I see the bag. Oh, the key. Look at the cool pink key.

Laylla: I love I love their key logo. That's their logo for Happy Valley. Like that old like a skeleton key.

Chelle: Oh, that's cute. That's different. That is you know, it's not a tree or a leaf or a planet. It's different.

Laylla: It's the key to happiness. It's the key to the Happy Valley.

Chelle: I love it. The key to happiness.

Laylla: They're weed. So, anyway, went to Happy Valley yesterday. And I love these folks. They have sales. I got some white wedding which is always a good standard.

Chelle: You always love the wedding.

Laylla: And I got Super Lemon Haze.

Chelle: I love anything lemon.

Laylla: And here's the thing I would like to say about the white wedding in the Super Lemon Haze. Currently, they are the High Times Cannabis Cup of Massachusetts 2021 first place winners, both of them. So, they're both a good a good strain, a good What's that? Terpene, terpine. Trying to use my good words.

Chelle: They're a they're a good cultivar. They're a good cultivar.

Laylla: Good cultivar. They're good cultivars. Both both of them um in different categories. One was uh I think one was a sativa and one was an overall, basically like a hybrid. But they both won first place. Very very nice. Then I got some dog patch.

Chelle: Oh, that sounds like fun.

Laylla: I like the dog patch. You know me, I go for high THC.

Chelle: Dog patch is a high THC?

Laylla: Yeah. So, I actually had a really uh successful trip to Happy Valley. I left the Valley happy.

Chelle: Nice. You have three different cultivars, right?

Laylla: Correct.

Chelle: Do they look different? Do they taste any different? Like have you tried all three?

Laylla: Well, here's the thing. You know, the Super Lemon Haze always has that stronger citrus taste.

Chelle: Very yes. That's one of the things I like about it.

Laylla: And it has that citrus smell.

Chelle: Mhm.

Laylla: Now the thing that frustrates me about dog patch is I feel like it smells like fruit and then it tastes like weed.

Chelle: Nice to your nose, not so much to your palate.

Laylla: It's not that it tastes bad, but the smell gives you an expectation of a more fruity sweet hint. And you're not getting that. You're getting I am smoking weed.

Chelle: I think that's kind of like coffee. You know, you smell coffee and it smells so good. And then you taste it and it's different. And it's because the molecules are so delicate that your the acids in your mouth to destroy them so you can smell all of them, but you can't taste all of them. I wonder if that's the same for terpenes in a bud. So, you can smell that floral, but you can't taste it.

Laylla: Here's the thing with dog patch. It's definitely more condensed and more crystallized. So, it's it's good. I not getting it, but the smell and the taste do not mesh.

Chelle: Which one is the crystalliest? Which one looks the frostiest?

Laylla: Probably the white wedding out of the freight, honestly.

Chelle: Yeah, I'm I I'm not surprised. With the white in its name usually they tend to be high trichome producers.

Laylla: That one that one's 32.7% THC.

Chelle: 32.7. Nice.

Laylla: You know, the the Super Lemon Haze is got that I don't want to say like that yellowy green, but definitely more like a lighter green.

Chelle: Mhm.

Laylla: Whereas whereas the the the dog patch more like that plant green.

Chelle: The Lemon Haze is the kind green and the dog patch is the schwag green.

Laylla: Right. Right. And then And then the white wedding is the so crystally.

Chelle: Okay.

Laylla: It's hard to tell what kind of green.

Chelle: Ooh, I like that. Yeah, nice and crystally. So, you've got it sounds like you have nice little variety there, a little charcuterie board of uh cannabis.

Laylla: Well, you know, I I like to get variety. When I go to the store, I'm going I'm going with this mindset, productive smoke and melt into the couch smoke because you know, right now I might want melt into the couch smoke, but you know, tomorrow afternoon I might want productive smoke. I always try to have on hand both options, productive high and drooling high.

Chelle: I agree. I think I I actually do the exact same thing. I Again I grow my own, so I have quite a bit on hand of I usually try to grow two or three different cultivars at a time because I don't like being stuck smoking the exact same thing for months on end. I do often get delivery from my favorite place, the gas station. Um little shout out to the gas station serves the Inland Empire. But I when I when I look for something, I do look for the same thing. I want something usually for pain management um and relaxation is a big one. And

Laylla: So, are you Do you try to go for like like a more equal amount of THC CBD then?

Chelle: No, actually I for CBDs I like to get um you know, I'll I'll get CBD separate. I'll get a a full spectrum CBD dabbable powder that I can either

Laylla: the the Super Lemon Haze has got that I don't want to say like that yellowy green,

Chelle: put under my tongue to work fast or dab it and smoke it.

Laylla: Oh, so you are smoking it. I thought you were going to say that you're not smoking the CBD.

Chelle: I do both. Um I will put it under my tongue uh to eat it in larger amounts, and then I will also dab it for quick acting. Um but then I'll also do dabs usually of a high concentrate THC that's um more of an indica variety that's good for pain. And so I I like to keep something like that would be more your melt in the couch kind of thing. And then I I like to have a lot on hand because my husband and I work in the same office, and we both work a lot online. So we'll sit here and we'll pass a bong or a bowl back and forth all day long. Uh so we like to have something that's an up high like the like a Jack Herer strain. Like we have that blueberry Jack Herer that we're almost out of. So we like to also have like an up productive because we are smoking quite a bit all day. You know, it kind of I have ADHD. I'm I'm highly distracted. So you know, it's it's nice to kind of have something to keep me on an even keel, keep me focused. Exactly, but keep me productive.

Laylla: Focused. But today What am I smoking today? We did get a delivery, so yeah, I'm smoking my um Jack Herer quite a bit. That's my kind of like main all day smoke. And then when I want a little bit of uh you know, a little pain relief

Chelle: Evening wear.

Laylla: Evening wear? That's a nice way to put it. I go for the abusive OG, which I got from

Chelle: Oh, I've never heard of that.

Laylla: Oh, it's nice one. It might be just Californian. I'm not positive. Uh it's a combination um you know, some people say it was kind of uh developed out of OG Kush, but this one's called abusive OG, straight indica, nice high THC. I don't honestly know what the percentage is, but nice high THC. And uh for me it helps with the pain, but you know, I stay steady. For For someone who's not an everyday user, I would go kind of slow on this abusive OG. Um you probably would recommend the same for some of the stuff that you smoke. You know, just have have a a hit, have two hits depending on you know, what your tolerance level is. You have to remember that

Chelle: Give it a second and see what happens before you smoke more. You can always smoke more, you can on smoke it.

Laylla: Yeah, I'm going to use my mother-in-law as an example yet again. If she wants to smoke sometimes for relaxation to help her sleep, she takes one hit or maybe two hits, and that's really it. That's all she needs. There's no problem. You're going to have a lot more fun, and you're going to be a lot more comfortable if you try just a little bit at first. Try one toke, wait half an hour, wait an hour, see how you feel, and then try two. You know, keep some CBDs on hand because that can help you a little bit if you do overdo it. Go slow. I guess that's all I'm saying. There's there's no This isn't a race.

Chelle: I wish I I I wish I could get that here in Massachusetts because that sounds like something that would that would do my back problems up real nicely if I was having a flare up.

Laylla: Yes, actually it does help. And And you know, cannabis does help a lot with inflammation. So that's why I like to to eat it as well as smoke it because the smoking makes it happen faster, but once you eat it, there's a slightly different reaction um and it it does help your body lower inflammation. And a lot of times, even if it can't help with the pain itself, it might help with the inflammation that the pain is causing, and that can help give you some relief.

Chelle: Right, right. That sounds like that would be that would be a good one for my back.

Laylla: Mhm. Definitely. Well, I'll make sure to have a store of it for when you guys come out and visit.

Chelle: Right? I just think I don't understand Well, I guess I do understand it because, you know, people are doing a lot of their own grows, and as things legalize um that wave of legalization just keeps going across the country. But you can tell that there's a lot of stuff that we can get the same. And then there's stuff, you know, that that I can't get that you get and that you can't get that I get. And you know, like on our last episode I had that straw nana rocking good stuff. Probably not something that you could get your hands on out there.

Laylla: It's not. I had to order seeds in order to be able to

Chelle: This abusive OG just sounds right up my alley as far as uh pain management, and I will probably never get to put my hands on it until I go to California. But it just it's just kind of weird how, you know, you you I guess people don't always realize that what you can get on the East Coast isn't necessarily what you can get on the West Coast.

Laylla: And I think one thing that people don't realize is how much prohibition hurts people. I I am a huge proponent for smoking just for smoking sake, but I am also proponent of using it for all the vastly different things that it can help people with. And prohibition right now is preventing you from getting this amazing really strong indica strain that's fabulous for pain. And you can't get it because I can't get it to you to Massachusetts from California. And that's because of prohibition. And that 's bullshit. We should be able to pass that shit back and forth. There should be zero problems with that. It should be as regulated as an ear of corn.

Chelle: Right. But, you know, we're getting there. We're getting there. More every year.

Laylla: Slowly. So slowly.

Chelle: Every every year another state goes legal, another state goes legal, another state goes legal. It's coming.

Laylla: Soon, I hope. But anyway, I got a story. You ready for a story, Shell?

Chelle: What do you have today? What What are you talking about? I mean, I don't know if mine was scary per se because I don't live there. I mean, if I was dealing with the finger thrower, the fire flame thrower, I'd be shitting myself. But what do you got?

Laylla: Yeah, I 'm not sure what's more scary, the one with the flaming fingers or the or the half man half beast with the lit up lunch box.

Chelle: Get out. Get out. No.

Laylla: Right? Just saying get out. And And honestly, kudos to the coal miners for listening because how often do you see on a movie or something where a ghost tells people to get out and they're just

Chelle: And they stay.

Laylla: Oh, I'm just going to have dinner and maybe I'll redecorate. What the heck? Get out. Something ethereal tells you to get the fuck out. You get out.

Chelle: Did your mother teach you to listen to your elders? And by definition And by definition a ghost is your elder. Just by definition a ghost is your elder. Listen to your mother.

Laylla: More than likely an ancestor. Listen to your ancestors, people.

Chelle: Yeah. Yeah.

Laylla: All right. So what I've got today Actually, I'm going the true crime route today. So we're going to go with less paranormal and more just how shitty sometimes people can be. So this one should be good.

Chelle: I'm intrigued. I'm intrigued. I I actually am because you know, I people are people are people, man.

Laylla: Right. So um I did not do the asylum, not because I hate asylums, but because the particular one I picked socked.

Chelle: Dear listeners, she hates asylums.

Laylla: I do hate asylums. I think they're awful, but that's not why. That's really not why. I swear that's not why I didn't do it. I did not do it because it socked. There was nothing to find. It was a very very boring. Looks like an interesting hospital, has a very interesting uh historical wing that has a museum in it. Go check it out. Anyway, so what I did do was true crime. I found the So it's sometimes called the Scream murder. Have you heard of this, Shell?

Chelle: Like the movie Scream?

Laylla: Just like the movie Scream.

Chelle: Is that Is that the one with the the the ghosty face?

Laylla: Yes, that is the one with ghosty face.

Chelle: Okay. I I'm following you. I know what movie you're talking about now, ghosty face.

Laylla: Okay. So this movie Or this movie Uh so this case is sometimes referred to as the Scream murder, and it takes place in Pocatello, Idaho back in 2006. And it it's very sad. I went back and forth on whether I was going to use the names of the perpetrators of this crime. And And I am going to I'm going to use their first names. Um they wanted fame. They They decided they wanted fame. And anyway, we we'll get there. But I'm going to use their names because they're around all over the place anyways. So 2006 Pocatello, Idaho. There's a young woman, 16 years old, high school student named Cassie Stoddart. She is by all accounts great girl, straight A student. She's really nice. She's friendly to people, very responsible. So this is September. It's a Friday morning, Friday, September 22nd in 2006, and it's a typical high school morning for Cassie. She's at her locker getting ready to rock another straight A day. She's going to make out with her boyfriend of 5 months, Matt Beckham. And then later she's going to house sit that weekend for her aunt Allison and uncle Frank. You know, total girl boss shit, right? She's got this.

Chelle: Sounds like a normal kid.

Laylla: Right, exactly. Very normal. Everything's great. At 8:28 that morning Cassie is filmed by her classmate uh Tori Adamchik and Brian Draper as she's getting books from her locker. Tori and Brian were aspiring horror filmmakers from school, and they were friends with Cassie and more so with her boyfriend Matt. Later that night Cassie goes to her aunt and uncle's house, which is just a few miles away from the house that she shares with her mother, her stepfather, her older sister Christie, and her younger brother Andrew. So she's not that far from home. And this is a nice house and and like a 2 acre lot. Her Her aunt and uncle had actually moved from California to Idaho just like a year before this. And this was like their dream home. And they decided to go away for the weekend with their 13 year old daughter. And Cassie had often babysat for them, so they asked her if she would babysit the house, if she would house sit for them and watch their animals in the house. And she's super responsible, so they felt very safe having her take care of the house. So while she's there, she had gotten permission to have her boyfriend come over as any teenager would do. And so her boyfriend Matt comes over and brings his friends Tori and Brian. See, they decide they're going to watch some movies. Tori and Brian were kind of looking more for a good time. They were hoping maybe there was going to be a party or something. They don't want to watch Kill Bill Volume 2. They decide They're going to leave and go to the movie theater and watch a a movie Pulse, I guess, in the theater. So after a couple hours, you know, you know, they'd arrived, they had a tour of the house, and after a couple hours decided they were bored and they left. So a little bit after they leave, Cassie and Matt are watching the movie, cuddling on the couch, and some of the power goes out. Not all of it. There's a few things on in the house, but it's like the power goes out to the house.

Chelle: Like it's like intentional or there was a bad storm?

Laylla: They're not sure. You know, it just kind of seemed weird. They had been hearing some strange noises. You know, like occasionally they'd hear a crash or something, and the dog was acting odd. It kept growling at the the door that would go down to the basement. So they were already a little on edge. And then when the lights went out and it just seemed to be a few lights in the house, they were really freaked out. This is, you know, around 9:30 10:00 which is getting close to Matt's curfew. So because of this they decide to call Matt's mom and ask if he could spend the night there. Cassie is scared and he's trying to be chivalrous. Mom of course says, you are 16? No. But if Cassie really is scared, she can come to our house and stay. Cassie says, no, I told my aunt and uncle I would stay here. You know, I I really can't shirk my duties. I have to stay. So she decides to stay, and it um some of the lights came back on, and things seemed to be quiet. So around 10:30 11:00 Matt's mom came, picked him up, and they left. As Matt's leaving with his mother, he called his friend Tori to let him know that he was leaving Cassie's and to see what they were up to, maybe they could come over later. Tori's whispering back and says they're busy. And Brian or Matt asks Tori why he's whispering, and Tori says it's because they're still in the movie theater. So the next day, Saturday morning uh it's the 23rd of September, Matt goes over to his friend Tori's house. So he and Tori are hanging out, spending the day together. Matt's trying to get a hold of Cassie. He's calling her, he's texting her. There's no answer, nothing. And so he's getting increasingly agitated. Is she upset with him because he wouldn't stay? Like what's going on? And he asked Tori to drive him. Tori's the only one of the friends uh that has a car or a license. And Tori says, no, he can't drive him out there because he doesn't have much gas left. He's barely out of gas, and he needs it to get to and from school and to and from work, so he he really can't.

Chelle: Understandable.

Laylla: Right. So nobody hears from you know, he doesn't hear from Cassie on Saturday. Unfortunately, I'm about to tell you the reason why Cassie never answered the phone on that Saturday. So after Matt calls Tori and says, hey, you guys want to come over? And Tori's whispering and he's like, no, I can't come over. I'm in the movie theater. Then he leaves and Cassie goes back to the couch and keeps watching Kill Bill. Then she hears noises in the basement again. There's like a couple crashes, and the lights go out again. And for whatever reason, whether she was sleeping or she was too scared to go check, she never goes downstairs. And then a short time after the lights go out, two costume figures wearing masks holding knives come up from the basement, and they slam a door trying to get her attention. And then they go into the living room and they brutally attack her. The crime is quick, it's violent, and when it's over she had been stabbed 29 or 30 times. 12 of the wounds would have been fatal on their own. And the wounds all came from two different knives, and 11 of the killing blows came from one of the knives, and one of killing blow came from the other one. So there's no way to tell which which would have been the one that did it. And she was left there in the floor. And unfortunately, you can find pictures of that online too if that's

Chelle: Wow.

Laylla: Sunday, September 24th the aunt and uncle return home from their weekend trip, and their 13 year old daughter heads into the house. And she's at first a little weirded out because the door is unlocked, but you know, nothing. She doesn't think too much of it and goes inside. When she gets to the living room, she is the one who sees the body, Cassie's body on the floor of the living room laying in a pool of blood.

Chelle: That sucks.

Laylla: And she had been stabbed 29 times.

Chelle: Oh my god.

Laylla: I actually have recording of the 911 call. Wow. So that was her aunt.

Chelle: Wow.

Laylla: And so when the when the 13 year old cousin saw her, it was her screams that alerted her parents and they came in and called 911. So in the days after that her body was found uh her boyfriend became the prime suspect. He was the last person known person to see her alive. And you know, the significant other is always the first person. You know, statistics show it's like something like 50% pending on what you look at that when a woman is murdered, it's her significant other half the time. So obviously they looked at him, but they they ruled him out pretty quickly because he had been picked up by his mother. He had no blood on him. You know, he had a lot of uh he had an alibi. So they quickly ruled him out. Then they looked at Brian and Tori because they had been there that night as well. You can actually see there's quite a few documentaries, and there's there's a lot of clips of their um interviews online. You can see them, you know, if you look them up at YouTube, that kind of thing. So then the next day that's when Matt's hanging out with his friend Tori and getting increasingly agitated because he can't get a hold of Cassie. And then Sunday Sunday is when her aunt and uncle return home from their trip, and their daughter sadly finds her body and calls 911. So Matt became the prime suspect and was found innocent. Um well, he was he was determined to not be a suspect any longer.

Chelle: Right, right.

Laylla: And then attention quickly turned to the two other boys that Cassie had been with that night, Brian and Tori. And you can find footage of the questioning that happened. Uh they were questioned over the next few days. They were first interviewed that Sunday, the 27th, the same day that Cassie's body was found. And at first, you know, they were like, no, we spent time. We laughed. It was boring there. We were expecting a party. Party didn't happen, so we left and went to the movies. And they said they went to see the movie Pulse, and that's where their story started to unravel. They didn't know what the movie was about. They couldn't remember anything about it. And then their story started to differ. And 3 days later Brian led investigators to the area where he and Tori had taken the items they had used to disguise themselves and to kill Cassie and burned them and buried them.

Chelle: Wow.

Laylla: And it was shortly after that that they they got a confession from Brian and told Tori what had happened. In the pile of items that they had discarded were the weapons. There were several knives there, latex gloves, black clothing, red and white masks, a written plan. They had written out what was burned, so it was only partial. Um but they had written out what they were going to do if Matt had still been there. They were planning on killing Matt too. You know, they had they had a whole detailed

Chelle: Holy shit.

Laylla: a whole detailed written plan and a videotape. And on that videotape you can see them the day that they recorded Cassie, the days the morning that she was killed that Friday they had recorded her in the hallway. You know, they have videotape of the boys talking about the murder. I'm going to play a clip of Brian and Tori talking about their plan to kill several people that night.

Speaker 1: A perfect kid to get. Like I'm like holy shit, dude.

Speaker 2: Horny just thinking about that. Oh yeah. So we're going to fucking kill her and her friends, and we're going to keep moving on. I heard some news about Kirsten. She's going to be home around 6:00 to 7:00. So we might kill her and drive her to Cassie's thing and scare the shit out of it.

Laylla: So they were planning on killing this other girl Kirsten and then leaving

Chelle: Oh my god.

Laylla: leaving there and going over to Cassie's house and killing Matt and Cassie if Matt had still been there. They went to Kirsten's house, and they actually drove around and walked around her house quite a bit, but she wasn't home alone. And on some of this video they talk about other times where they had tried to kill classmates. They had a whole kill list. They had a whole plan. They wanted to kill as many people as possible, and they videotaped themselves talking about this. And this night was going to be their night of rampage, but the Kirsten thing didn't work out. So they went back to Cassie's house. And what actually had happened was they said they were bored and they were going to go to the movie theater. And instead they left, drove around the block, parked, changed into their fucking costumes, and then went back into the house. When she had given them a tour of the house earlier

Chelle: Uh-huh.

Laylla: Tori unlocked the door from the garage to the basement. And so they came back, went into the garage, and then went in through that basement door where in their stupid fucking masks and their costume and carrying their knives. And they created some noise hoping to get Matt and Cassie to come downstairs where they can then kill them in the basement. When that didn't work, they flipped the switches, the breaker switches to try and scare them again because they loved the movie Scream. They loved horror films. They wanted to cause terror. They they fancied themselves some sort of filmmakers themselves, smarter than the FBI's. You know, they were going to commit the perfect crime. No one came downstairs, and then they heard Matt leave when he got picked up by his mother. And Matt called them, and they were whispering because they were in the basement of the fucking house Cassie was in. And they didn't want her to hear them. So then after he leaves they start making noise down there again trying to get her to come downstairs. And when she doesn't they flip the breakers and go upstairs slamming doors trying to get her to be as scared as possible.

Chelle: And these are what, 16 year old kids?

Laylla: 16 year old boys. These are two 16 year old boys. And you know, the signs were there. They were obsessed with horror movies. Not that being obsessed with horror movies or crime necessarily makes you a cold-blooded killer. You know, but there's a difference between being interested and wanting to emulate.

Chelle: Correct.

Laylla: You know, and so they have all this videotape of these boys and what they had planned on doing.

Chelle: And I would imagine um that that these kids are still in prison.

Laylla: They are, and I'll get to that too. I'm going to play another part of the tape for you.

Speaker 2: Time is 9:50. September 22nd 2006. Unfortunately, we have the grueling past of killing our two friends. And they are right in that house just down the street. We just talked to them. We were there for an hour.

Laylla: So that's them saying that they're going to they're getting ready to go in and kill their friends. They documented this whole thing.

Chelle: Wow.

Laylla: Yep. So they had left it unlocked. They went in. So after they go up and kill Cassie and later spend the day with her boyfriend and then are brought in by the investigators. When they are finally cornered Brian did confess. Tori didn't, and his parents to this day insist that he's innocent. But at this point their stories differ quite a bit. Of course they each say the other one was the instigator or made them do it.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: Tori says that it was all Brian's idea and that he thought they were just going to go there to scare or prank Cassie and Matt. Brian says that Tori charged up the stairs at Cassie and began violently stabbing her and then told Brian he had to do it and that Cassie was already dying. I don't know if it's true or not, but in some of the interrogations with him I saw it was implied that he would had only stabbed her once lightly. Like some of the stab wounds weren't as deep as others. And it was possibly you know, he'd only killed her once. You know, it was just the one stab wound that he did that would have killed her, and the others were kind of you know, not as deep. So

Chelle: Uh-huh. Well, that's what I was going to say. Didn't you say there was at least 12 different wounds that were that were fatal in and among themselves?

Laylla: Correct. Correct. 11 from one knife and one from another. So even if he is just the one, he still did it. But you know, so he's trying to say that it was all Tori. Tori is trying to say that it's all him. You know, the evidence shows that it was two different knives that killed her. So they're both definitely responsible. 16 year old kids killed a 16 year old girl with everything ahead of her. For fun. For a movie or for something. I don't even know. I'm going to do one more clip. Here's where they talk after the murders.

Chelle: Okay.

Laylla: This is Brian.

Speaker 2: We just left her house. This is not a fucking joke. I stabbed her in the throat. I I saw her life this body just I disappeared. Dude, I killed Cassie.

Laylla: That was Brian. So the one who said I killed Cassie, that was Brian.

Chelle: Wow. Wow.

Laylla: Now I've watched some interviews with them. You can see there's one called Teen Killers Life Without Parole. There's another one called Lost something. I'll have to double check and see where you can see them in jail. So um and and how they act afterwards. Brian now does admit to responsibility. He does admit that you know, poor decision, poor impulse control, bad idea. Tori still says he's innocent and Tori's mother has even written this really not great book saying how innocent he is and how he got screwed over by the system. What happened was they were both charged, obviously, because of this overwhelming evidence. They were both charged. Brian's trial because of the brutality of the crime and the fact of how premeditated it was, they were tried as adults. Brian's trial began in the beginning of April 2007 and Tori's began May 31st, 2007. They both had the exact same charges, one count of murder in the first degree and one count of conspiracy to commit murder in the first degree.

Chelle: Wow.

Laylla: So Brian's trial was over very quickly. April 17th, 2007 Brian was found guilty of first degree murder and first degree conspiracy to commit murder, mostly because he had already confessed and he is the one who showed them where the stuff was.

Chelle: The video. Yeah, yeah.

Laylla: Quick, over done. Yep, did it. Tori's trial took longer because again, he tried to say that he didn't do any of it. It was all Brian's idea. Total innocent babe in the woods. And they did read transcripts of some of that video that I played for you and, you know, obviously did not go over well. So they were both found guilty, same charges. June 8th, 2007 Tori was found guilty on the exact same charges. Brian and Tori are both incarcerated in the Idaho State Correctional Institution in Kuna, which is in Ada County, Idaho. And they've both tried to appeal their sentences for being too harsh. Now on the one hand, 16 year old I do completely get that a life sentence without the chance for parole might be harsh. And and current wisdom says they don't usually do that anymore. However, again, because of the overwhelming evidence, because of how brutal it was, how premeditated it was, they these guys aren't getting out. And they they've tried. And I I guess some people think possibly Brian may have rehabilitated himself and and may possibly be a candidate for them that or someone who they might consider. I don't know. But Tori definitely not. Again, his mom wrote that creepy book. He says he's innocent. If you watch some of the mannerisms between him and his parents, they answer for him, they talk over him. It's really weird. It's not great.

Chelle: Wow.

Laylla: As for Cassie and Cassie's family, her aunt and uncle still own the home. They can't sell it. They've tried. No one will buy it. They redid the living room, but they said they can't go in there.

Chelle: Maya.

Laylla: Even I saw an interview with the uncle Frank which was done in October of 2014. It was in the Idaho State Journal. And he says that their dream home had turned into the world's worst nightmare. They had thought it was going to be perfect and instead just barely a year after living there, you know, this happened to their poor niece and his wife lost her job afterwards. She became depressed and was on a lot of medication. His stepdaughter, the the 13 year old girl who had found poor Cassie's body, she had a breakdown. She attempted to commit suicide. She I mean, how devastating for this family. And

Chelle: Well, you got to figure, you know, this was only what? 13 15 years ago?

Laylla: 2006 is when it happened. Yeah, 16 years ago.

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: My heart goes out to that whole family and her brother, Cassie's brother, his name's Andrew. He's just a year and a half younger than her. He said he always looked up to her. They were like best friends. They'd always been close. And he says it's still hard. And he was featured in an interview as well just a few years ago. And he says that it 's not something that they've ever really gotten over. And he says he will never forgive the killers.

Chelle: You could. I I I couldn't. I couldn't.

Laylla: No. No, I couldn't either. There's a quote, a couple of quotes of his. One says Andrew says quote again from the Idaho State Journal. He says we love her. It's always going to be a part of us. It 's not like it's ever going to go away. It's always on the back of our minds, but we focus on keeping our family strong instead of focusing on the bad. We focus on the good and when she was still around, nobody should ever have to go through it. It makes you appreciate things a lot more, he said. You never know how fragile life is. You never know how easy it is for someone to be gone the next day. Nobody expects that. You never. How could you know?

Chelle: Yeah. Yeah. I mean, jeez.

Laylla: Yeah. That's my super sad true crime story of Cassie Stoddart who by all accounts was just amazing. You know, had so much potential, all 16 year old kids really, goodness.

Chelle: And could potentially still be in that living room.

Laylla: I did actually. I was not looking for this nor did I expect it, but in that interview with her uncle Frank he does mention that they've all had experiences in the house and they do think that she's still there.

Chelle: I would I would almost expect it based on the circumstances. I would almost expect it to to yeah. Absolutely.

Laylla: Yeah. They they never go in that room even even if it's just the specter of memory. You know, that's that's difficult. But you know, they yeah, he says in that article it does say that they've all had experiences seeing her in the house. So I don't know if that's good or sad. All things just sad. It just sucks. It just all sucks.

Chelle: Yeah. Well, there you go. The Scream Murder. So I don't fuck those dudes. I almost called them dickhead and asshole throughout the whole thing.

Laylla: That is pretty that 's pretty shitty and you know, it has in in the whole grand scheme of a life sentence, you know, after 16 years they think that they've fulfilled their penance. You know what I mean?

Chelle: Right. Right. They're still here. And one of them hasn't even accepted or you know, for someone who wanted to have fame and wanted to be known

Laylla: He sure as hell's avoiding it now.

Chelle: Exactly. Exactly. And and I get the fact that they were kids and sometimes kids' brains are different than adults' brains. That's why we try children differently than we try adults, but damn, really? Especially if even after 16 years he can't accept responsibility for the fucked up shit that he did. No. No. He deserves nothing. Nothing.

Laylla: Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Time does not heal all wounds, unfortunately.

Chelle: No. Fuck that. Fuck that.

Laylla: And this is definitely this is definitely a case where time does not heal all wounds, especially 16 years. He hasn't even been in jail. He well, he's been in jail now about the same amount of time that that she was quote unquote allowed to live on this earth. And and that's just that's just not enough. You wanted your fame, you can have your fame in the Idaho State prison system.

Chelle: No. Exactly. I I'm with her brother Andrew. I mean, seriously, fuck them. No forgiveness. But at the same time

Laylla: Yeah.

Chelle: look forward and and remember how precious life is. Hug the people that you love. Tell them you love them. You know, do the thing. Eat that fucking candy. If that's what you want, do the things that you want. You know, take that chance.

Laylla: Smoke that bowl.

Chelle: Smoke that bowl. Buy that good bud. You know, just do it. Because just do it. Just do it.

Laylla: Just do it. Let's do it. We like to watch Guga. You ever watch cooking videos on YouTube?

Chelle: No, not really.

Laylla: Oh. We watch we watch alcoholic drink making videos on YouTube.

Chelle: Ooh ooh, fun fun fun. Now we watch steak cooking videos with Guga. He says let's do it. I love it.

Laylla: We watch we watch we watch The Tipsy Bartender.

Chelle: Oh, The Tipsy Bartender. I like that.

Laylla: Yeah. So thank you for listening to episode 11 of The Stoned Which Is Our with Laylla and Shell. Next week at 4:20 a.m. we'll be bringing you some witchy weedy weirdness.

Chelle: What are we bringing them next week, Laylla? Do we know or is it going to be a surprise? We should surprise them and surprise ourselves.

Laylla: Are you just saying that because you don't remember what we talked about?

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: Yeah. Folklore. We're going to talk about witchy

Chelle: Folklore.

Laylla: With the situation that's going on in Ukraine, a lot of things have come into the headlines and the one that we're going to touch on on this podcast is the witches and the folklore of Ukraine. If you've heard some of the curses that have been in the news

Chelle: And I I I think that that we'll we'll have a good time. I think our listeners will like some of the the witchy folklorey type conversation. And we we do want to let folks know that this was kind of inspired uh this episode was inspired by the what we like to look at is is the uh curse dealt out by the uh civilian of Ukraine uh to the Russian army involving her her sunflower seeds. So that kind of is what inspired us and and we are definitely going to we're going to talk about some Ukrainian folklore.

Laylla: In the village where every other woman is a witch.

Chelle: Yep, yep, yep. Wait, is that my village? I think that's my village.

Laylla: There's a village. That's right. No, the your village is where every woman is a witch.

Chelle: Right, right. But you know, we wanted we wanted to touch on folklore. We wanted to kind of focus on some Ukrainian folklore because we we do want to give out some of our our well wishes and our our thoughts and prayers to the folks of Ukraine.

Laylla: Absolutely. Absolutely. Strength to them.

Chelle: Right. Next episode is going to be folklore focusing on Ukraine, Pennsylvania Dutch, and some West Coast folklore as well.

Laylla: There's folklore in the West Coast?

Chelle: Oh yeah.

Laylla: You're going to have to educate me on this.

Chelle: Well, we'll see you next time, guys. Stay high, stay hippie, and let's get gooly next episode.

Laylla: Stay stony. We'll see you at 4:20 a.m. at the next The Stoned Which Is Our. I love that. All right, later. Thanks for listening to The Stoned Which Is Our with Chelle and Laylla. If you like what you heard, please rate us and consider giving us a review. It really helps the show out and we'll definitely take a took of The Kindness Bud in your honor. Check us out on the podcast Story Time with Tom and Mike on March 25th wherever you get your podcasts.
