Laylla: So Chelle, I'm a little nervous today, so I'm kind of pounding down joints of of my homegrown. I've rolled a whole bunch so that I can just keep smoking them one after another to try and calm my nerves. Power smoking.

Chelle: Right?

Laylla: Because tonight we're having Brittany and Dan on from the podcast We All Pod Down Here. And I want to make a good impression.

Chelle: It's witchcraft.

Laylla: Hi, welcome to The Stoned Witches Hour. On this podcast, we smoke weed and scare the crap out of each other with stories of true crime and the supernatural. I'm Laylla.

Chelle: And I'm Chelle.

Laylla: So while we wait for our guests to arrive, I am smoking way too much. What are you smoking today?

Chelle: I'm actually, I got a new one today.

Laylla: Ooh, I love when you get something new. You're always willing to try something yummy. What did you get?

Chelle: And I always get so excited, too. I'm like a kid in a candy store. Um, MAC 1, it's called. It's a hybrid.

Laylla: Mhm.

Chelle: This one is 36.02 THC.

Laylla: Oh yeah. Oh yeah, Chelle going for the big stuff, reaching for the top shelf right away every time. Love it.

Chelle: You know, for for anybody out there who's taking notes each week on the percentages that I smoke, we're going up here, friends. I seem to be getting, no, I seem to be finding stuff lately in like the mid to upper 30 percentile, and I'm kind of happy about it.

Laylla: That's great. That's really nice. One of the things about the gas station that I don't love is that not all their stuff has the percentages on there. So, it's just a little bit nicer when places do. But, their customer service, top notch. Cannot be beat. I'll tell you, I will settle for slightly inferior product, not that this is, but I would, for really great customer service, because you guys always talk about great budtenders and I'm so jealous. But, some of the guys out here are pretty great.

Chelle: I I I do feel bad because it seems like your experiences have not been consistently as stellar as mine, customer service-wise.

Laylla: That's true. Well, I'm going to start going to some high-end bud places because I want to start trying some of these um stoner celebrity weeds, just to see what all the hype is about. So, I'm going to go into some bougie stoner shops and I'll report back and let you know how that goes.

Chelle: Definitely, definitely. But, tell me about this MAC 1.

Chelle: It's kind of got like a like a flowery taste, and I'm not talking about flower what people call weed, but flower like what you buy your girlfriend on a holiday flower.

Laylla: I love cannabis that has that kind of flower, that bouquet. I love that so much.

Chelle: That floral.

Laylla: Yes.

Chelle: Floral, scent-y.

Laylla: Call me a girl, but I like that.

Chelle: But, it it it's not overwhelm- it's not like that overwhelming, you know how sometimes you get that weed that kind of tastes like perfume-y? It's not like that at all.

Laylla: Yeah. Yeah.

Chelle: No, this is like an- it's almost like a a natural floral, flavory scent.

Laylla: Yes, anything I get that's too intense, I automatically suspect that they're putting terpenes in it. And again, don't mind as long as they tell me. But, you know, if you're going to flavor it up all grapey intense and then try to pass that off as natural weed, I'm going to be a little sus- you know, that that's kind of sus because you know pot doesn't taste that intense. You get a hint of it, you know? So, a nice hint of floral sounds fabulous. How's the high?

Chelle: It's it's actually really good. It is an indica, but very it's a very good daytime smoke.

Laylla: I love a good daytime indica. Love it.

Chelle: This is definitely not a calm me down, get you ready for bed, melty into your bed kind of thing. This it like I said, it says hybrid, but it's really

Laylla: Is it one of those kind of zone into work and really get your shit done, listen to some great music and being productive kind of weeds?

Chelle: Yes, absolutely. Absolutely.

Laylla: Hey, and that is perfect timing. Brittany and Dan, our guests for this evening, have arrived.

Laylla: Joining us today in our search for truly spine-tingling tales are Brittany and Dan from the podcast We All Pod Down Here. Hi guys, why don't you introduce yourselves and tell us a little bit about your podcast.

Brittany: Hey, so I'm Brittany, um and our podcast, we basically just go in and talk about horror movies. Um we also do dive into kind of just ranking them sometimes, and then we just review individual movies. Um and Dan and I are married, so Dan's my husband, and I'll and I'm from Maryland originally, but we both live in Florida now. Um and I kind of really got into horror as a kid. I actually grew up just a like within about a five-minute walk of Burkittsville, Maryland, where The Blair Witch Project was filmed, so

Laylla: Now, that is one of my favorite movies, but before we get in there, let's say hi. Hi, Dan.

Dan: Hi. So, yep, I'm Dan. Um so, she's certainly my better half. Um I'm from Monroeville, Pennsylvania. If you're familiar with the town Monroeville, it's probably from Dawn of the Dead. Oh. All the Dead movies were filmed in Western Pennsylvania where I grew up, so that's how I got into horror was Night of the Living Dead and

Laylla: More excellent movies.

Dan: Yeah, that series of movies is will always be my favorite and what got me into it. It's such a big cultural thing in in the Pittsburgh area.

Chelle: So, you two essentially got together and got married based on the fact that you were both originally from towns where horror movies were sparked from?

Brittany: Almost, we actually, oddly enough, met because of um mutual interest in uh heavy metal. We have um friends that are from all over the world that listen to metal and we they ended up, mutual ones introduced us, so

Dan: Yep.

Brittany: That's how we met, and then

Laylla: Now, you're wearing a t-shirt of of a heavy metal band, and this one's kind of important, right?

Brittany: Yes, so I'm wearing my um Selfgod t-shirt. It's from my friend Serg's band. He's actually from Ukraine originally. Uh his family still lives over there, and so of course with everything going on in Ukraine, we thought we'd show him a little support. Uh he just had a new album come out, so if anyone wants to check it out, uh we can give you guys the link if you'd like.

Laylla: Definitely, we'll put links to that down in the show notes for sure. And hopefully, does he know how his family's doing? Are they safe?

Brittany: Some of them, I think he's found. I don't know if he's found his mom yet, unfortunately.

Dan: I think his I think his mom's okay, um as far as I know. I I think she might have gotten out of there a little while ago, but like before all this madness started. But, um yeah, he's originally from one of the occupied cities that was occupied a long time ago. And, yeah, he's he's his family has seen some really terrible stuff. He's a really wonderful guy. I've known him for a very long time. He lives in Pittsburgh now. That's where I met him through the through the metal scene there.

Laylla: Yeah, and that's how you guys met, too. So, our hearts definitely go out to them. And and again, we will put some links in the show notes if if you want to support the band or check them out, we'll have some links there for you.

Brittany: Yeah, they're they're really great. They have a lot of pagan themes. Actually, oddly enough, when he did one of his interviews, he got interviewed by one of the big metal websites because originally they put up an article about like some of the Ukrainian bands, and his part got taken down because apparently some Russian bots like went to them claiming that he was supporting like neo-Nazis and stuff, but what they found was that what they were claiming was quote-unquote supporting neo-Nazis was actually a pagan symbol in a photo that he was in, and they were like, "Look, it's a Nazi symbol." It's like, "No, this was a totally pagan symbol, had nothing to do with Nazis," so

Laylla: That's a big problem with some of the symbolism is a lot of the old Norse symbolism, a lot of old Hindu symbolism, all uh symbols have also been co-opted by Nazis. So, you know, you kind of run into a little problem there. Not that I'm saying all I know some heavy metal has to do with old Norse things, I just wanted to throw that in there.

Dan: Oh yeah, it's a it's a big thing for sure. There's entire subgenres of metal dedicated to that.

Chelle: Really? Mm. I didn't know that. Now, Brittany, can you tell us again one more time, what is the name of the band?

Brittany: His band is called Selfgod.

Chelle: Okay.

Dan: One word, Selfgod.

Brittany: Yep, yep, Selfgod, it's one word, so

Chelle: And we're going to have um a link uh put up on uh tagged to this episode for them.

Brittany: Awesome, thank you guys.

Dan: Yeah, thank you.

Laylla: Now, you guys talk about um horror movies, and you talk The way I found you was um The Deep House, is that the the title of The Deep House. I had just watched that movie and was kind of looking it up because it was interesting to me, and I saw your podcast. And it was You liked it, Brittany, and I don't think you liked it, Dan, as much.

Dan: I I I liked aspects of it. There are certain things I felt like they could have done a little better. But, overall, it wasn't bad. There's just little details, like the whole premise was brilliant.

Laylla: That's what I liked about it, I think, kind of the horror of the relationship itself, you know, getting and getting trapped in that, but again, different podcast. But, so I do have a serious question, though, very, very important question for my horror movie aficionados here. Who is it that dies first the most in movies? Is it the stoner, or is it the person who is having sex?

Brittany: Oh, I think it depends, but I would say

Dan: Yeah, that's a It's a tough one, right?

Brittany: There's always somewhere it's across there's probably somewhere it's a crossover, but I would say probably the the stoners would die first mostly.

Laylla: I knew it. I knew it. Why?

Brittany: I my guess is because the stereotype would be that they're just so relaxed and not paying attention.

Dan: Lacking out of it, not not paying attention to their surroundings kind of thing, maybe, like they're just kind of zonked out.

Brittany: Yeah, have you have you ever seen the The Rise of Leslie Vernon?

Laylla: No, I have not.

Brittany: Okay, so there's a really funny part in there where they're basically it's it's very much like Scream in that it's kind of like making fun of itself a bit, you know, and being very like meta like that, but basically the basic premise is these people are following around the guy who's supposed to be the next like Jason Voorhees or Freddy Krueger or something.

Dan: He's he wants to be the next one.

Brittany: Yeah, so there's kind of like as if this is like the real world and they're just following him around to see how he's going to become

Laylla: Like a documentary kind of thing?

Brittany: Yeah.

Dan: His prep- his preparation and everything.

Brittany: Yeah, like how he prepares, and it's it makes fun of itself the whole time, you know, just it's really silly. But, there's a point where they have the stoners, and he's like, "The stoners are going to be right there, so I can get them easily," and so it has like, "And here's the people having sex, and there's the people that do this wrong," and it's really funny, but I think you guys would get a kick out of it.

Chelle: Eat a brownie and the stoners the first to go. They're going to come running, exactly.

Chelle: Um I actually I actually I love my favorite movies of all time um is the the Friday the 13th series. Um granted, the work the the more they made, the worse they get. Like, Jason should never be in Manhattan, I'm just saying.

Dan: Or in space.

Chelle: But, that's where it kind of got ingrained in me that if you're having sex, you're the first to go. Yeah, first to go. Jason's going to get you.

Dan: Michael Myers gets you, too.

Chelle: That's right. But, as a side note, I thought it would be very interesting to point out to you to you guys today is our guests that this past Halloween, um my boyfriend and I went as Jason and Michael. He is he he's a a big Michael Myers fan, so he was Michael, and I was Jason with pigtails, but it was cute. It was cute.

Laylla: I love that. That's awesome.

Chelle: I might have had the pigtails, but I had the machete and the whole bed, yeah.

Laylla: She's the most adorable serial killer you'll ever see, I think.

Chelle: Hey, our our our pitch was the killer couple.

Dan: Oh, there you go.

Chelle: I love it.

Laylla: Now, I do find that um there are several movies out there. The first movie I ever saw cannabis in was um Poltergeist, Poltergeist, with the parents smoking in bed. They're kind of smoking a joint. And it was revelatory to me because they weren't they weren't slackers, they weren't kids, they weren't being stupid, they were just a couple of adults smoking a joint at the end of the day. And they didn't die, which I thought was really great. They were actually the heroes of the movie, so I thought that was cool. But, there's other movies like uh what is it, the Scary Movie franchise, doesn't somebody die by a pot plant in one of the in the Scary Movie?

Brittany: I think so. I can't remember which one, but I think so.

Dan: Yeah, I don't remember which one because there's like a thousand of them.

Laylla: So, but do you guys have a favorite horror movie or anything? Well, you had mentioned because of growing up in the Pittsburgh area, you familiar with

Dan: The Dead series, yeah. Dawn of the Dead's number one for me. There there's nothing that even comes close. We just did a ranking where we ranked our favorite franchises, and like that one's my top, and that's the the quintessential horror movie for me.

Laylla: What makes it the quintessential? Like, is it because it's so scary? Is it because it's so fun?

Dan: It's psychological. I love psychological horror. I don't usually like horror that's just about blood and guts, torture porn stuff. I think that's really stupid.

Laylla: I totally agree with you. Totally.

Dan: But, like stuff that has no story, no plot, no nothing. The the whole idea of zombie films that George Romero tried to put into them is a lot of social commentary. Uh they placed it in a mall because he looked at people in the mall and thought they looked like zombies just walking around from store to store.

Laylla: I love that.

Dan: And the whole i- the whole like he was like the anti-consumerism kind of thing, and how it's messing up a lot of things in society. And the whole idea of a zombie apocalypse is a real psychological thing because no matter how slow- now there's fast zombies, slow zombies, whatever, but like it's the impending doom and that that no matter what you do, they're still coming for you. And trying to survive because it's a lot about it's a human story, too, about survival. And, for me, those themes just hit really good for me.

Laylla: It's interesting because right now, I I loved horror movies when I was a kid, and then when I had kids, I kind of stopped for a little while because it was too real. And now I like them again, and I think because it's the world is so fucked up and everything's so bad, I'm like, "Well, okay, maybe it's almost World War III, but at least it's not World War III with zombies."

Dan: Yet.

Brittany: Yet.

Laylla: Yet. Yet. You know, I'm not going to try and give the universe any ideas here, but I think it's a little bit of an escape for me right now is is watching things that are scarier than real life, I think. But, do you have a favorite, Brittany?

Brittany: This is always tough for me because I have like for our ranking, I actually ranked Godzilla for the franchises that was my favorite because that's kind of what I grew up on uh of all things. Like, my parents always would be like, "This is too scary for you, don't watch it," and then I'd watch it, and then and then I would be scared, and so I was such a scaredy-cat as a kid, but

Laylla: And you'd go back again anyway.

Brittany: Mhm. Yeah, there's so much like that I'd be like, "Oh, this scared me," and then I'd be like terrified. My mom was like, "Why do you keep watching it?" then I'm like, "I don't know. It's so good, I need to."

Laylla: Yeah, that's exactly how I was. I really I can really relate to that.

Brittany: But, yeah, it's it's hard for me to pick a favorite. I've I've thought about this a lot, and I still haven't fully decided like what my favorite is because there's so many things I love about individual ones. Like, I always say the one that comforts me the most of all things is uh probably Jaws, which is there's some debate of whether that's not whether or not it's horror. I'm like, "Well, you know what, for a whole like couple summers, no one went in the ocean, so I feel like that counts as horror."

Laylla: I still know people that won't that won't swim in any body of water because of that movie, so I think that counts as horror.

Dan: Yes. There's a place in Texas, a convention who does a screening of it while in the water.

Laylla: That's just mean. That's downright mean.

Chelle: They do that up here as well.

Dan: That's awesome.

Brittany: Do they really? That's so fun.

Dan: That's awesome. I want to do it.

Brittany: I would love to do that.

Laylla: I would I would absolutely love to do that.

Brittany: Oh my gosh, because they're like in inner tubes watching it. I was like, the best.

Chelle: My boyfriend wants to do that so bad.

Laylla: On an inner tube?

Chelle: I will take pictures of you from the beach, but I am not I am not going out on a tube.

Dan: I would totally join him.

Laylla: That sounds fun. Maybe not on an inner tube.

Chelle: No, you guys can all you guys can all do that now. Cuz that'll be the night that Jaws actually comes back.

Brittany: Right. Bruce is going to be there.

Laylla: I'm sorry, but in an inner tube, your butt hangs way down in the water. I would My butt would be clenched so tight the entire movie.

Dan: Just don't fart. It'll it'll it'll give give give them something to come after.

Laylla: Does that attract sharks? I don't know.

Dan: More blood than anything, but

Laylla: I don't know.

Brittany: No, we're actually we're supposed to be we were supposed to go before COVID to Australia for my birthday, and so one of the things we're going to do is I want to do the cage dive with the great whites, so that's like my big thing that I'm like desperate

Chelle: Wow. Oh yeah. Oh, that would be fantastic.

Brittany: I love sharks, so

Dan: You're still trying to convince me to do that.

Brittany: Yeah, Dan's like, "I'll go on the boat with you. I don't know if I'm going to go in the cage." I'm like, "Oh no, I'll be in the cage."

Chelle: You want your own Jaws moment.

Brittany: Mhm, I want to give him a little pet.

Laylla: That would be kind of cool, actually. You have to post pictures. Do you guys have an Instagram or anything? You have to put them up.

Brittany: We do. Yep, so we do for we do have one for the podcast, and then I just have like my own individual one, which is mostly just videos of my pets being stupid, but

Laylla: Fun. Do you want to shout out your your

Brittany: Yes, so the um so for the podcast, it's just @weallpoddownhere. Uh for my personal one, it's just @tiki108, so

Laylla: There you go, so then you can get scared, and when you're too scared, you can go see cute pets and get a get a good giggle.

Brittany: Yeah, and if if you're in the middle, I also have um I breed reptiles, actually, so and tarantulas, so I have um it's called Tiki Exotics is my other one that I have for if anyone likes snakes or tarantulas.

Laylla: I love snakes and tarantulas.

Brittany: Well, there you go. There's actually

Laylla: What kind of snakes?

Brittany: Mostly ball pythons. I have a couple other I have corn snakes, I have hog-noses, I have Kenyan sand boas, I have a little spotted python, um but I have like

Laylla: Ball pythons are adorable. They're like the puppies of the snake world.

Brittany: Exactly, they have the little puppy faces.

Laylla: They do.

Chelle: They scare the shit out of me, people.

Dan: They did me at first, too, but now I'm used to it.

Laylla: I used to work in a pet store, and um we sold some big snakes. We used to have some beautiful, gorgeous um Burmese pythons. Um we had one albino that was about 4 ft long, and there was this little girl, I swear she couldn't have been more than 5 years old, she and her parents used to come in, she was fascinated with this snake. It was bigger than she was, and it was the sweetest snake. After a little while, she would let it drape around and we'd let her walk around the store with it. I cannot tell you how many people would run screaming from the doors when they would see this little girl with a snake.

Chelle: That'd be me.

Laylla: It was cute, though. She loved that snake. It was it was wild. This little girl was just so drawn to it. It was weird.

Chelle: I would not have gotten the cat's food that day if if it meant going by that snake.

Brittany: See, that I would have been the little girl. I my my poor mom and dad when I was a kid, I was like, "Can I have a pet tarantula?" because I went to a nature center and they let us pet one. It was a little rose hair, and I was like, "I need one," and my mom was like, "Absolutely not." She's like, "I" All she could think of was the scene from Home Alone where it crawled on his face, and she's like, "That'll be me. I can't have this."

Laylla: Yeah. Yeah, I guess that is kind of a fear.

Chelle: Do you have a tarantula?

Brittany: I there's about

Dan: We have an army.

Brittany: Yeah, there's about 60 of them behind me right now, so

Laylla: So, you're you're breeding a critter army in case the zombies come, you can unleash the hordes.

Brittany: Yep, exactly.

Laylla: Smart. Smart. I like you're thinking ahead. I like that. I like that. Okay, so we have to bring up the witch in the room because you grew up near Burkittsville, which was made famous by its very minor appearance in the movie The Blair Witch Project. And I'm sure you get this a lot, but I love that movie so much. Loved it.

Brittany: It's so good.

Laylla: It's so good. I I know it it divides a lot of people because it's not that good, but it's really, really great. And the the found footage, when I first heard about it, I I saw the documentary, I saw the website before it came out.

Chelle: Mhm.

Laylla: And I was like, "I know this is fake, but there's a documentary. What the hell? Like, wait a minute, is this real?" It gave me motion sickness. It gave me pause for a minute. I actually wondered.

Brittany: Oh, yeah. But there's there's questions I have, though. I understand that the the there's the story, and there's the legend of the the Bell Witch. I almost said the bitch witch.

Laylla: [laughter]

Brittany: The Bell Witch, but having been from that area, two questions. One, how did the movie affect life in that area? And two, is there really any basis for this, or is this just another Amityville Horror that's just kind of based on some bullshit?

Chelle: So, there there is actually no legend whatsoever. That's never That was completely made up for the movie. There's never been a legend. There never was any Blair Witch. There's actually The whole movie actually They The initial like opening scenes where you're driving into the town, that actually is Burkittsville. Um, it's going to I actually know the exact road they're going down, um, 17, and it's going right into the town. But the bulk of the movie was actually filmed in a different county because there's not that many woods actually around Burkittsville. Like, you go up the the one hill. It actually It's funny. They have a spook hill, like one of those, um, you know, like the gravity hills where it'll like pull the car up the hill because of the illusion.

Laylla: Mhm.

Chelle: So, they actually have one of those right in Burkittsville. But when you go up the hill like and you get out of Burkittsville, there's some woods up there, but the actual town itself, there's mostly just like There's a cemetery, and then there's like a bunch of farmland that's just like open land around there.

Laylla: I'm wounded. I'm hurt. There's no woods in Burkittsville?

Chelle: Not really, because the town is so small. Like, like I actually where I grew up, I grew up technically my zip code was Jefferson. Like, I could walk five minutes and be in Burkittsville.

Laylla: Mhm.

Chelle: But we had 15 acres that was almost all wooded. So, around our whole house was woods. And when the Burkittsville Carnival would come around, the carnival would be playing music, and it could you could hear it through our woods.

Laylla: Oh, nice.

Chelle: So, like, the first We moved there actually when I was 13, because I grew up right in like Frederick, which is like It's all the same county, but we moved out to the actual like area right next to Burkittsville when I was 13. And that area, like, you could hear that coming through the woods, and it was the scariest thing the first time, because my mom was like, "Oh my gosh, there's people squatting in the woods. Something's happening." And it took us forever to figure out it was the carnival music coming through there. But she thought we had people out there, and I'm like, "No, Mom, it's the Blair Witch. She's here."

Laylla: [laughter] I can If you can't If you didn't know what was going on, hearing carnival music come twinkling through the the woods would be scary as hell.

Chelle: Oh, so creepy. And then, you think it's the killer You think it's the killer clowns from outer space.

Laylla: [laughter] And clowns, I'm sorry, are the worst. Clowns are the worst.

Chelle: Oh my gosh, terrifying. Terrifying.

Dan: Killer clowns are the best. Oh my god, it's so funny.

Laylla: So, did people come to Burkittsville after the movie? Did they

Chelle: Oh my gosh, yes. So, I got stories about that. So, my friends that actually because my bus went right through there every day, so my I had several friends that lived like in the houses like right like the main street town area. So, right where that area is, there's now like this There's just one intersection in the town. Like, it's literally just like one road that goes in, one road that goes the other way.

Laylla: Mhm.

Chelle: And where that intersection is

Laylla: A literal like one one stoplight town kind of thing.

Chelle: Yeah, and there's no stoplight. It's like a one stop sign town.

Laylla: One stop sign, even smaller.

Chelle: It's a small, small town. But, yeah, so there's now, if you look at it, there's a cobblestone like for that crossroad area. There didn't used to be cobblestone there. The reason there's cobblestone there is when the second movie came out, because of everything that happened from the first movie, they were like, "We're not doing this again." And they actually shut down the town, and the excuse was they had to make this cobblestone little like crossroad, just because they didn't want to deal with it anymore. So, they shut down like the whole town for like months.

Laylla: Smart. That's like a small town solution. "We don't like you, and so we're going to like passively aggressively do something to keep you away."

Chelle: Yeah. So, for the when the first movie came out, people came from all over the world. My friends have pictures of like people that came from Germany to see the town, like people came from all over. And some of it was nice. They just came to see the town, take photos, be, you know, everything was kind of cool. Um, they had friends that they actually dug up rocks in their yard and wrote like "From Burkittsville" and were selling them for like $5 a piece like in their front yards.

Laylla: That's fantastic.

Chelle: Wants money. But then, there was the bad stuff where people did a lot of like damage to the cemetery. It's like a really old cemetery there. There was headstones knocked over, there was stuff stolen. There was actually people that were like trying to take bricks out of like the walls in the houses, like

Laylla: That's too bad. That's Oh my god.

Chelle: It was a lot.

Laylla: That kind of tourism ruins it for everybody.

Chelle: I know. It's like It's one thing when it's fun where it's like they came, they just want to take photos of the town and everything. Like, that's great.

Laylla: Go buy somebody's backyard rock.

Chelle: Yeah, exactly. Like, you get the official Burkittsville rock. So, but

Laylla: They weren't lying. They weren't wrong.

Chelle: [laughter] Yeah, exactly. Like, this is legitimately here. So,

Brittany: I'm a cigarette smoker, and so when I on the days I actually have to go into work, you know, I have to go outside to smoke. I am living in Salem, Massachusetts, and I promise you, I am in probably thousands of tourists' photos, because people just walk down the street taking pictures.

Chelle: Oh, I'm sure.

Brittany: I'll be out I'll be out on the sidewalk smoking a cigarette, and like crowds of tourists, all year, not just October, all year.

Chelle: Wow.

Brittany: Yeah.

Laylla: So, one of the things I really loved about Granted, the performances I thought were amazing for people who didn't know what they were doing, who just went out there and kind of ad-libbed everything. It was just The movie was a lot of fun.

Brittany: The psychological part of that, and I think the way they filmed it and the way they made it look like it was a home video and not a movie production is what made If that was like a movie movie, I don't know if it would have worked.

Chelle: Mhm.

Brittany: But the handheld camera aspect, that is what pulled you in quick.

Chelle: Mhm.

Brittany: And it made you It made you freak the fuck out.

Chelle: Oh, for sure. And there's so many people that fully believed it was real. Like, the the people that were the actors, their families for months afterwards got calls about people trying to like help volunteer to look for them and stuff like that. Like, because and again, you couldn't do this nowadays because of the internet being so much bigger and people would figure it out in moments. But back then, they had like at the actual premiere, um, I believe it was at Sundance, they had actual photos like missing flyers for these kids.

Laylla: Yes, I saw they'd passed them out, I think, not just at the premiere. Oh, shoot. Sorry. But at actually other places, too, like um at other music festivals and stuff, that they'd passed them out.

Chelle: Yeah, they went all out for this. And a lot of it was stuff like The reason a lot of it was ad-libbed and stuff is they literally gave them like a premise and were like, "Run with it." And the real famous scene where they have the woman that's telling the story of the Blair Witch, they still don't know who that was. Like, they haven't been able to figure out like who this woman was they were interviewing, because she just kind of like made that all up on the fly. They just told some random town folks that they're like, "Here's what we're going to be doing. Like, mess with these people." And they just ran with it. Yeah. And the whole like with the little you know, with the little boy's like, "No, no, no," and like trying to cover her mouth, like that just was like random people in the street. They don't even like have that person like on the payroll or anything.

Laylla: Oh, shit. [laughter] That's fantastic.

Laylla: I love that.

Chelle: And like the scenes with where in the woods where they like they like rattle their tents and stuff like that, they didn't tell them that was going to be happening. They would just randomly decide to mess with them at various times. And so, these people probably were genuinely like They knew this was going to happen, probably a little freaked out anyway, but just being out in the woods and just having random stuff happen to you and be like, "Was this the Was this the producers, or was this someone else?" you know?

Laylla: Right. That sounds like such a fun, scary movie to have made. But, so, the the Bell Witch, like I had heard Okay, Blair Witch is fake. Everybody knows that. But I had heard rumors that it was based on a a true story of the so-called Bell Witch. Is that a true story, or

Chelle: So, the Bell Witch story is totally separate. That's actually I want to say that is Massachusetts, also, if I'm recalling correctly. But the Bell Witch is one where it's a story of the I believe that was like in the 1700s. I'd have to look up all the details. Um, but basically, that one is one where I don't know if they was ever or inspired for the Blair Witch at all. I don't know if they actually used that information. But that one was more just based in a house that they had this haunting where it just seemed like this what they the so- they called the Bell Witch, uh, because it was, I think, it was the Bell family. Oh, you know what? It was in Tennessee. I remember now, because there's there's the Bell Witch

Laylla: Oh, Tennessee.

Chelle: Yeah, it just like clicked in my head. There's Yeah, there's the Bell Witch Cave.

Brittany: Yeah, I just looked it up. It was Adams, Tennessee.

Laylla: Okay. So, maybe that rumor came about because Bell and Blair sound similar.

Chelle: Yeah, that's what I think, maybe. I mean, they may have been like loosely inspired by it. But that one was mostly just based where it was just kind of like a a haunting within the actual like little cabin that they had.

Laylla: Interesting. Well, that's pretty cool. I I kind of love the whole uh ad-lib part, like the whole the the mystery lady with the ad-libbed story. How fun is that?

Chelle: Yeah. [laughter]

Laylla: And it's interesting because everybody seems to have a story or know of someone who has a That might be something that she had heard and was kind of riffing off of to kind of mess with them, you know, because so many different places have stories and houses, too. And, like, you guys have some spooky stories, or have had encounters yourselves, you've mentioned a little bit.

Chelle: Mhm. I'm going to let Dan go first on that one, because he's got some really good ones.

Laylla: [laughter]

Chelle: And I've been talking a lot, so.

Dan: So, I have two major ones. Um, I guess I'll go chronologically. One was in my grandparents' house. I guess it's sort of an older house, probably like early 1900s. Um, and I would stay overnight there. My cousin was visiting for the summer. So, we I would stay overnight there a few times a week. We'd just hang out, whatever.

Laylla: You just, as a quick aside, isn't that always nice, like kids who can when you can spend some time with your grandparents in the summertime? Like, so much fun stuff usually happens there. Not always hauntings, but fun stuff.

Dan: Yeah, fun stuff, definitely. You know, we built a snow shoot one time in the winter and made our made a slip 'n slide before they actually existed and flew down a hill. Things like that.

Laylla: See? Perfect, perfect childhood stuff.

Dan: Mhm. And ghosts.

Laylla: [laughter]

Dan: This was This one was a little freaky. So, I'm sleep We're sleeping in the We had like a pull-out sofa bed. So, we're just crash kind of watching TV, crash in there. And just falling asleep, and there there's always my my grandparents have mentioned various things happening there. Um, my aunt had a when my aunt had a thing where she was, you know, using a Ouija board or something, and some some apparition came up and said told her to stop.

Laylla: Chelle loves a story that starts with a Ouija board.

Dan: And it just literally told her to stop. "Don't do this ever again."

Laylla: No shit. Like, an apparition came up and like said that? Damn. I wouldn't, either.

Brittany: Yeah, people fuck with the Ouija board and wonder why shit happens.

Dan: Now, she's a hardcore Christian.

Laylla: [laughter] Oh, now she's a hardcore Christian? Wow. Wow. That scared

Dan: Talk about the opposite end of the spectrum. Yeah.

Laylla: Ran straight to what she felt was safety.

Dan: Apparently. It really isn't.

Laylla: [laughter] Right. Yeah, yeah. Different podcast.

Dan: [laughter] What what happened was um with me, so we're we're kind of crashing out, and the we never went into the attic. There was always some weird stories with the attic or something. I don't really remember. But it was a two-story house, living room's on there's a basement, living like the regular floor, and then upstairs. So, up the upstairs had a door that would you could close. And my grandparents would usually close it. And, you know, if one of them had to come down and get a drink of water or something, you'd hear the door open, whatever, coming down the stairs, no big deal. So, I hear the door open and slam really hard. And I assume that it's probably my granddad or my grandma going to get something to drink.

Laylla: Mhm. Common noise you're used to.

Dan: Mhm. Click, click, stairs, you know, the very familiar sound walking down the stairs. Except no one comes out. I don't see anybody.

Laylla: Uh-oh.

Dan: And I found that very strange. I kind of get up, look around. There's nobody downstairs. It's just my my cousin's fast asleep, snoring away. And now, I'm just like, "What the hell is going on here?" So, I kind of go back to the bed, and there the door to the cellar was visible from the bed. Door's Door's closed.

Laylla: Why would you put a bed in visible view of a cellar door? How are you supposed to sleep?

Dan: It's a sofa bed. Okay, I guess that's a little bit of an excuse. So, it's just a pull-out couch.

Laylla: That's rude to your guests. How are they supposed to sleep staring at your cellar door? [laughter]

Dan: But it's like It's kind of in a hallway. So, like, the main entryway hallway, and the door's kind of on the right. And I'm just like a little freaked out because this isn't normal. And then, I see the door creak open and slam really f-ing hard.

Laylla: You saw it?

Dan: Yes.

Brittany: And how old of a How old of a kid were you?

Dan: I was probably like 10.

Brittany: Okay.

Dan: Just slammed really hard. I am freaked the F out.

Laylla: I'm freaked out.

Dan: So, I I just threw the sheets over my head.

Laylla: Smart move.

Brittany: How is that saving you?

Laylla: No, that's smart. Blankets are safety. No, that is good.

Dan: It is It's total like, you know, ignore like ignorant like ignorant like childhood ignorance. You know, "I can't see it, it can't hurt me" kind of thing.

Laylla: See, I disagree. I think it's the power of the blanket. If you hide under the blanket, you know you're safe under there. It gives you total protection. Yes.

Dan: Blanket forts are the best, too. So, so, I'm just I'm freaked the fuck out. And then, all of a sudden, like, I I and I heard the clipping and clopping down the stairs into the cellar.

Laylla: Oh, no.

Dan: And then, I hear the clipping and clopping going back up.

Brittany: Oh, shit. That's worse.

Dan: Yeah. And I I heard the door creak. I heard it slam. There's nobody around.

Laylla: What the fuck? Did the demon want some water? Oh my goodness.

Dan: I don't know why they're going in the cellar. It's just my grandfather's workshop, but there was a lot of sharp tools down there. I was hoping no one would come out with one. But then, you know how a lot of people

Laylla: Wait, to get a weapon? You let it arm itself? Oh my goodness.

Dan: It It did not come back with a weapon, thankfully. But, you know, you never know. But, um, I'm freaked out. And you know a lot of times when people have experienced something like that, if the the spirit is whatever is near, you get that cold, paralyzing feeling. Yes. So, this is in the middle of the summer, granted. There's no central air conditioning. The house is hot as heck. And I just get this chill, like this bone down to the bone chill, and I'm just paralyzed. I'm paralyzed. Like, I can't f-ing move. I'm just like And then, it kind of went away. Nothing else happened. I didn't sleep very well that night. And I talked to my grandparents the next day. Like, "Did you come down at about like 2:00 in the morning to get a drink of water, anything?" Like, "No, we didn't." [laughter] We just slept through the night. Like, "What happened?" I'm like, "You're not going to believe this." And, to their credit, they they were like totally believed everything I said, and like

Laylla: They didn't notice a thing? No, they were out cold. I'm like, "You're not going to believe this."

Laylla: I don't know if that's worse, that they believed you.

Dan: [laughter]

Laylla: Does that mean that they had had experiences there, too?

Dan: Not really. Like, they said there was like They've heard weird noises in the attic before that they thought was something weird, but there was a story, I don't really recall, the actual story behind it.

Laylla: So, but some you're just a good you're just such a trustworthy kid, so they were going to believe you.

Dan: Apparently. Yeah, I didn't really get in any trouble, I didn't lie, I still don't, but like, it was just very, very weird experience.

Laylla: That's very creepy. That is That is truly a creepy experience. What is it with ghosts and stairs? I don't understand. Why do they like to go up and down stairs? That's creepy.

Dan: And the like the the noise pattern, it fits exactly walking down the stairs. It was the exact kind of like, you know, space between the sounds of somebody walking down. And they were the the stairs made a lot of noise. They creaked a lot, and they had like a I forget, it was like a plastic cover thing on like a rubber thing, and like if someone had slippers on or shoes or something, you'd hear click, click, click, click. So, it would be very apparent if someone was walking down the stairs, and that's exactly what it sounded like.

Laylla: Or if it's a demon going to the basement to get something to do a little slicing and dicing somewhere. [laughter]

Chelle: [laughter] Yeah, that's the issue, you know. If it came up with like a like a like a hacksaw, then we would have had a problem.

Brittany: Do you know any of the history of the house at all? Do you know if there was like anybody who died on that property or anything of that nature?

Dan: There was There was, and that's the whole like attic story. There's somebody who passed away there before my grandparents owned the house. Like, the people who lived there before, and there's like some weirdness about it, but I I really don't remember.

Brittany: They're probably still home.

Dan: Pro- Probably. Whoever's in there now is probably met these these things, but

Laylla: Oh my goodness.

Dan: But, like, this is the only time it happened. It never happened to me again.

Brittany: Did it happen to anybody else in your family?

Dan: Not Not that I'm aware of. Not not exactly like I experienced, at least.

Chelle: I always wonder if people like Dan and I are just a little more sensitive to stuff like that, since we've both had weird experiences, so.

Laylla: I think so. You know, I think some people are more sensitive, and I think those people do tend to be drawn to things like horror movies or, you know, searching conspiracy theories or, you know, stuff like that. We People are drawn to it because we have questions, you know, and so you Absolutely. And so you start to want to look for answers, and it kind of leads you to some interesting places. So, I wouldn't be surprised It sounds very much like you were in the right place at the right time and and a little more sensitive, I think, and and were able to see something. That's wild.

Dan: My cousin didn't see shit. He slept through the whole thing.

Laylla: Out cold, even.

Dan: He slept through the whole thing. He's like, "Are you crapping me?" And he believed totally believed me, because, I mean,

Laylla: Again, trustworthy guy.

Dan: Yeah, and he's a trustworthy guy, too.

Brittany: Well, at that age, he was probably pissed that he didn't wake up and experience

Dan: Oh, yeah. He was He was a couple He was a couple years older than me. So, he was just like, "Man, I would have liked to have seen that. Why didn't you wake me up?" I'm like, "I was too scared, dude." [laughter]

Laylla: [laughter]

Laylla: Now, Dan, do you think that um when you experienced like that chill and the paralysis, do you think that was due to fear, or I know some people in paranormal situations describe a similar type of paralysis and chill that wasn't could have been fear-based or could have been something else kind of holding them in place? Do you have an idea of which it might have been?

Dan: I felt like it was something holding me in place. That's It's like I was already scared, but like the chill was really strange. And it was it was something like I had never experienced before. Not like a scared chill, just like down to your bones kind of chill, and I'm just paralyzed. I'm paralyzed. Like, I can't f-ing move. I'm just like

Chelle: Cold.

Dan: And then, it kind of went away.

Laylla: That's one of the things that fascinates me, now that Chelle and I are kind of looking more deeply into some of these things stories that interest us, is the similarities. And and you describing that feeling of of feeling like you couldn't move, like you were being held there, is is a commonality through a lot of these stories, and I I find that kind of interesting.

Dan: Yeah, for sure.

Brittany: Kind of f-ing freaky.

Laylla: [laughter] Well, yeah, that, too.

Dan: It wants your attention, apparently.

Laylla: That's Yeah, I guess so. It wanted you to know.

Brittany: Mission accomplished.

Dan: [laughter] Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.

Laylla: Now, is your experience uh in a house similar to that, too, Brittany, or

Chelle: Kind of. So, I figure what we'll do is, because Dan has another story, I'll tell my next story, and then that way we can kind of go back and forth a little bit.

Laylla: Perfect. Yes. Yeah.

Chelle: So, I'll tell my story from when I grew up, uh the house I grew up in. So, the this is the one we moved out to that's near Burkittsville. So, that house was built in 1863. So, already, it's, you know, we celebrated its 150th birthday up there, so.

Laylla: Wow.

Dan: Very creaky house. Like, the wood was very Like, you walked on the floors, you heard it.

Chelle: It was almost all original stuff there. Like, the there was a mudroom that was and like an extra bathroom that was eventually like added on as an addition. But the bulk of it was like the original like floors, like you could actually see like the grain and everything from it, the um the banister was like the original cut from the house when it was first built.

Laylla: We see that more often on the East Coast. The East Coast tends to have a lot of older houses, you know, farmhouses that have a lot of the same trim and everything. Out here on the West Coast, the house I'm living in, we're the second family to live in it, and there was nothing here before, and that's that's pretty common. We have all the pretty boxes neighborhoods [laughter] from the weeds opening. That's here. I live there.

Brittany: All the ghost-permeated houses over here.

Laylla: Right. And so, it's it's interesting, you know, houses on the East Coast do tend to have a lot of that history. So.

Brittany: A lot of the houses in Florida don't have as much of the history.

Chelle: No.

Brittany: Because we live in Florida now, and we have a house that was just built in like 2007. The advantage though, it does not have stairs. So, there's no stairs for things to go up and down.

Chelle: No stair ghosts. Yay!

Dan: We don't have basements. No basements.

Chelle: Yeah.

Dan: Because of the sand. We've never had a basement.

Chelle: Yeah, but you also can't hear them coming because you guys don't have old enough houses that are going to creak and crack.

Laylla: This is true.

Chelle: You're not going to hear these things coming at you.

Dan: I would hope one of the dogs would pick it up and freak out, but.

Chelle: But at the same time, no basement, no stairs. I mean, you're kind of on an upside, even without the creaking.

Brittany: Exactly.

Chelle: So.

Brittany: So, but the house I grew up in did have stairs, did have a cellar basement kind of thing. The basement you had to actually go outside to get to, which was even creepier.

Chelle: Even creepier.

Brittany: Yeah, and it was it was very much like a like the one side of it had a like actual like concrete floor, but then you went around like the corner side, and it was literally just still like a dirt floor on there. So.

Chelle: A cold cellar where they would store food and stuff, yeah.

Brittany: Yep, exactly.

Laylla: And bodies.

Chelle: Yay, Dan, with the with the horror.

Brittany: I know. But so, because the house was built in 1863, so of course, dead center of the Civil War, like where that house was, um, if you went about 20 minutes past Burkittsville, you went right into, um, where Sharpsburg is, which is where the Antietam Battlefield is. So, it's like one of the single bloodiest days of the war. You go right up, you know, about 30 minutes north, you're in Gettysburg. So, there was a lot of things that happened. Like, there's still like original like, you can still see like the original like stone walls that they had built for the for for like a lot of the the Civil War and stuff.

Laylla: It was a rough neighborhood to begin with.

Brittany: Pretty much. So.

Chelle: A ghost superhighway.

Dan: So much history. There's so much history. And and there's a lot of this kind of activity there probably because of the Civil War.

Brittany: Yeah.

Chelle: Yeah.

Brittany: So, and of course, I being the kid I was, my mom had her original Ouija board that she got in like, I think, the '60s that she let me play with because I don't know why. She's worried about me being scared, and then she's like, "Here, have a Ouija board. Have fun."

Chelle: That's so on brand for your mom.

Brittany: I I know. My my mother is wonderful. She's the sweetest, but she's just so silly. Like, it's stuff like that that I'm like, "Why?"

Chelle: Is she an Aquarius? Because it's something I would do, you know.

Brittany: Um, I'm so bad at the days. So, she's uh, she was born in September, early September.

Chelle: Oh, then definitely not.

Brittany: Okay, so I'm I'm terrible with which.

Chelle: That's okay.

Brittany: Which ones are which. I know I'm Capricorn. I know.

Chelle: I'm a witch, and I'm bad at it.

Dan: I'm a Sagittarius.

Brittany: Sagittarius, that's the only ones I remember. So.

Chelle: Oh. But yeah, so what happened to me, oh, sorry, what were you going to say?

Chelle: Oh, I was just going to say, so she gave you an antique Ouija board to, you know, play with. Just don't scare yourself.

Brittany: Yeah, pretty much. So, how do I not scare myself? She actually gave it to me originally when we were in the house we were in before, which that one was like, we owned that house from like the moment it was built. So, that one never had any weird things happen there, of course. And then when I'm 13, she's like, "Let's move to the country in Ghostville."

Laylla: See house, yeah, with ghosts.

Dan: To a Civil War era house.

Brittany: Yeah, so we went from a house right in like Frederick that was built in like '91, '92-ish to, you know, 1863. Great idea, Mom. So, I play we played with this Ouija board, of course, in my room in that house and everything, and I eventually stopped playing with it because I don't remember exactly how long after we'd been playing with it with some friends, but I kept trying to like talk to my dad, which is, you know, my dad died when I was a little kid. So, I was like always trying to like talk to him or see who we could get in get in touch with. And that's never a good idea, of course, but what ended up happening one night is I remember I woke up, and it was about 3:00 in the morning, and I remember because I sat up in bed, and I turned and looked at my clock that was like right above my head. And it was between like 2:00 and 3:00 in the morning, and I remember I wasn't even like scared. I always feel like if you're scared, you know, you've got more heightened emotions, you're going to like be more likely to hear something, even if there isn't really anything. No, I'm not scared. I'm just like, "Oh, gosh, this is inconvenient. I have to be up in a couple hours for school. This this is not good." And before I even sat down, right next to my ear, plain as day, I heard something go, "Bad." Just like that. And I was like, "Oh, well, that's not good. It's apparently bad." So, I was like I lay down, and I did the same thing, put my head under the covers. I was like, "I think this will be fine. I'll go to sleep. It'll be fine." So, didn't play with the Ouija board after that.

Chelle: That's the worst.

Chelle: No.

Brittany: Uh, but other little things had happened. Like, even when Dan was over like, when, you know, as the adult, like, I would you'd hear uh, like feet on like the like what sounded like heavy shoes walking around.

Chelle: Oh, wow.

Brittany: And the whole house, of course, is wood floors, so you can hear stuff very easily. The attic was creepy as fuck. So, that like Dan, I took you in the attic at least once to show it to you, right?

Dan: Yeah, it just.

Chelle: Oh, so you got to experience it, too?

Dan: Mhm. Yeah, he.

Brittany: Oh, interesting.

Brittany: But my mom sold it eventually. She apparently sold it with the condition it wasn't haunted, but I was like she's like, "No, I had pretty many experiences with stuff. It's fine. No one else had a problem."

Dan: But when she set the house up, she put out all those porcelain dolls that were creepy as.

Brittany: Oh, my gosh, she had these old antique porcelain dolls in the hallway. It was like.

Chelle: Wait, wait. She put up porcelain dolls in an really old farmhouse that has a little bit of paranormal activity?

Laylla: She thought that she thought that they.

Dan: She thought they looked nice in in trying to sell the house. Creepy as.

Brittany: She thought they looked nice.

Laylla: And that is time to bill it as unhaunted.

Brittany: Yeah, and the realtor was like, "You cannot do this." He's like, "You will never sell this house."

Chelle: Smart realtor.

Dan: I walked in, and I'm like, "Why are there these porcelain dolls over there? Why are they staring at me?"

Chelle: Oh, I would have noped right out of there.

Laylla: Now, I know where your love of horror has come from. It really is your mother.

Brittany: Yeah, so and she always claims she didn't like horror that much, but then she would do stuff like this. And so, but yeah, she would she had them set up in like this back bedroom that was like really ancient-looking. The house, the way it was set up, it was like three bedrooms. You had to like walk through one to get to the other. And that bedroom where they were was the room that had the stairs to the attic. So, I was like, "Mom, this is the worst idea." So, because she left that room there, it used to freak me out, and there was no locks on any of the doors because they were all like the original doors. So, I used to like take like suitcases and barricade the doors because I was like, "Nope, uh-uh. Not not getting me."

Chelle: Yeah, no, that's smart.

Laylla: She was creating you a ghost army with those dolls.

Brittany: Oh, my goodness.

Laylla: Like the damn Annabelle factory.

Chelle: Much like you are now with the snakes and the and the spiders. Annabelle factory. No, let's not have one of those, shall we? No.

Dan: I was expecting to hear one of them click clicking around walking across the floor.

Chelle: Oh, don't you guys have Robert the Doll in Florida?

Brittany: We do, yes. And Dan, I've told you stories about that. Yes, so it's down, um, it's way south of us. It's down, um, I want to say it's in the Keys. Um.

Chelle: I think so, yeah.

Brittany: We're in we're in Tampa area, so it's down couple hours south of us. But yeah, they still have it on display. You can go see it if you want to see the terrifying doll that would run around the house at night.

Laylla: I think Robert the Doll is a good friend of Brittany's mom.

Brittany: Apparently, she's drawing her down, be like, "Mom, what do you think of this doll?"

Chelle: "How about this doll?" Yeah. Yeah, that's unfortunately an East Coast story, so that's in Chelle's territory. No, I don't get to talk about Robert the Doll, but he is spooky. So, you didn't have a Robert the Doll amongst those porcelain dolls, I'm guessing?

Brittany: No. No, thank goodness. They never I never heard them do anything. I just was convinced they would eventually. So.

Chelle: Well, they're all evil. At some point, every porcelain doll is going to do something creepy. It's just a matter of when.

Brittany: Exactly.

Chelle: Yeah.

Dan: Or or it's going to be like Seinfeld with with the one that looked like George's mom. They thought it was yelling at him.

Brittany: I thought you were talking about the dummy like in Seinfeld where they have the dummy that runs around. He's like, "Mr. Marbles?"

Chelle: Those are all evil, too. It's well known.

Brittany: They are. They have to be.

Chelle: They're all demons.

Laylla: But it sounds it sounds like the house didn't necessarily have anything angry or um, benevolent. It was just more there.

Brittany: That's what I'm thinking. The only other thing we had happen that was pretty creepy that happened to everybody was we were one night like, all of a sudden, we wake up in the middle of the night, and it is like a billion degrees in the house. And it was like an old, um, little like the heating system was all like an oil heat thing.

Chelle: Mhm.

Brittany: And the little thermostat on the wall was one you actually like move it like that. It wasn't like a button, with buttons like they have nowadays. So, it was just this real old thermostat, and we woke up in the middle of the night, and someone somehow had gotten flipped all the way to like the hottest setting.

Chelle: Oh, wow.

Brittany: So, of course, we turned it down. It's like, of course, dead of winter, too. So, my mom's like, "Gosh darn it, my heating bill's going to be out the wazoo this month." So, she, you know, we turned it down, everything. We opened some windows, try to like get some of the hot air out. And what we thought had happened was my brother and my niece had been staying were both with us, and my little brother and my niece both were really cold when we had gone down to our cabin in Virginia because the heat wasn't working properly, and again, dead of winter. So, we all were really cold there for like the weekend we went. So, my mom thought maybe my little brother, because he's like maybe like seven or eight at the time, or my niece, who's about the same age, one of them probably turned up the heat, not realizing they were turning it all the way up. That had to be what happened, right? So, about a week later, my niece is, you know, back with my oldest brother, and my little brother was actually staying at a friend's house that night. So, it's just me and my mom, and we're both upstairs, and wake up, again, billion degrees. And we're like, "Okay, so clearly, it wasn't them." My mom's like, "Clearly, the ghosts want to cook us." So, the way she resolved the situation until she could get a new thermostat installed was she took a, uh, what was it, toothpick. She took a toothpick and wedged it in there and taped it in so that it was like.

Chelle: Oh, smart. So, the lever couldn't get pushed to the other side. That's smart.

Brittany: Yeah, and so to this day, I don't know if it was that. I like logically, I'm like, "Maybe somehow the cats jumped up," but it was like really high on the wall, so I don't see them being able to jump up and like smack it. So.

Laylla: That would be a one-time thing, not multiple times.

Chelle: Yes, exactly. That would be a chance random thing. Wow, that's creepy. Maybe they were trying to terraform the house so that the the demons could come in and be comfortable.

Laylla: No, I think she was right the first time. The ghosts were trying to cook them.

Dan: Yeah, I think so. So, like a slow cooker, I guess.

Brittany: Yeah. But mother's technology prevailed when we got our new thermostat, and it didn't have it again. So.

Chelle: And toothpicks. Toothpicks. Mom ingenuity and.

Laylla: You probably you probably had something there, honestly, that didn't realize the war was over and still thought it was coming home from a day on the battlefield.

Chelle: Oh, maybe they were really cold, you know, and they wanted it to be warmer. Ooh.

Laylla: Yeah, I mean, in in that general area, you're you're talking about like these these poor wartime spirits that just don't really have a clue that they're dead.

Brittany: Mhm.

Chelle: Yeah.

Brittany: Yeah. And I know that I've heard before that like water seems to like have some like possible paranormal like connection in some ways. And so, of course, there's this stream that ran right next to our house. There was a pond in the backyard that was like, you had to walk a little bit of a ways to get, but it was a really big pond. And apparently, it was on some kind of natural spring, so like if it rained enough, you'd start seeing water bubbling up from the ground. So, my mom was like, "There's supposed to be this possible underground lake underneath the house on top of it." So.

Laylla: You're just in a mass conduit for paranormal.

Brittany: Yep, it was just everything. I was like, "Yeah, this was." Yep, so.

Laylla: In a Civil War era house. Right.

Chelle: I have heard that with the water, though, and like the in Estes Park, the the Stanley Hotel has water and limestone, and I like the stone tape theory where different types of rock and things, I've I've heard similar things with running water can can kind of record events and hold spirits there. So.

Brittany: And to top it all off, all of Frederick's on a giant limestone quarry. So.

Chelle: There you go. Big time.

Brittany: It's all connected there. So.

Chelle: Yeah, so there you go. They're just all stuck there. Interesting. So.

Brittany: But for for real quick, for your West Coast stuff, I don't have any good ghost stories from it, but I remember listening to one of your early episodes, you mentioned the Queen Mary. We have stayed on the Queen Mary.

Chelle: Oh, have you really? I they're closed right now, so I'm kind of jealous.

Brittany: When they reopen, they have a ghost tour they do there, or they have two different ones. One's where they just do a regular tour, and one they like take you to like 2:00 or 3:00 in the morning, and you do like an actual like ghost hunt overnight, and they give you like all the equipment and everything. So, if you get a chance, definitely, even if you just get the chance to stay there, it's great.

Dan: Yeah, it's just a cool, ominous kind of kind of location.

Chelle: I love that.

Laylla: Is it kind of like sleeping over on a cruise ship? Kind of vibe. On a really old cruise ship.

Dan: Yeah, really old, but yeah, a little bit because like.

Brittany: Cruise ships, of course, nowadays are real modern and nice, whereas this still feels very, very old. It's very very neat.

Laylla: But like still like those same small, compact rooms and.

Dan: Yeah, small rooms.

Chelle: Well, it's going to be different. It was closed for COVID. Now, it's been retaken by, um, the either the city or the county, I'm not sure, but they they've retaken control of it. They've had different subcontractors kind of own it for the past several decades, I guess. And now, they've taken control, and it's shut down for remodeling. So, they're going to have completely remodeled it. Maybe once that's done, Chelle, you can come out here, and we'll we'll have to ring up Brittany and Dan and be like, "Okay, which room should we stay in? Where should we go?" And we'll we'll go.

Brittany: Yeah, there are rooms they actually have noted like, "These are the most haunted rooms," too. So, they they always cost a little more. We were we were only able to stay there for like one night, and we had to get up really early for a flight the next day. So, I was like, "Let's just stay in one of the regular rooms tonight since we're already doing we're doing the ghost tour but not the full ghost hunt." So.

Dan: Yeah, it was cool.

Chelle: That sounds very cool.

Brittany: If you guys want, guest, we'll we'll come out and join you. We'd love to.

Chelle: Oh, fun! We would love that. Okay, all right. Pencil that in, Chelle. We're going to do that here sometime. That would be fantastic. Make it happen.

Brittany: Yep.

Chelle: Yeah.

Brittany: And if you guys want to come see the Robert Robert the Doll, we'll take you down there. We can all have the.

Chelle: Oh, my gosh, it's going to be road trips. Okay, I'm so down. Scary road trips. We're in.

Laylla: Ghosty road trip.

Chelle: All right, it's all right, definitely. Oh, Dan, you have a you have more stories? That wasn't the only spooky thing that's happened to you?

Dan: I do. Yeah, I have another I have another really good one. Yeah, this one's like really weird. So, this happened, god, trying to remember what year this was. It was.

Brittany: I think like late late like 2009-ish.

Dan: 2009, 2008, '09-ish, probably. Um, I was staying at, um, an ex's house, and um, it was not an old house. So, it was a house that her mom had designed herself, had they built it and everything. So, it's not like there was anything there from before. And nothing really creepy happened to me there, really.

Brittany: Until.

Dan: Until this. So, I just kind of woke up in the middle of the night, and there was like a like an apparition that looked like it was probably, you know, Depression era kind of like wearing that kind of clothes and stuff like that. Looked very, very frightened and sad. And it was just right there, like plain as day, and it was it scared the crap out of me. Just staring.

Chelle: Was it right at the end of the bed?

Dan: Right at the end of the bed, staring.

Brittany: Cuz, I know you guys have had stuff come at your feet.

Dan: It it kind of like came from the corner of the room and then sort of went towards the end of the bed.

Chelle: Now, you said it was frightened. What do you think it was like, well, weirded out that you guys were there, or sorry?

Dan: So, it just kind of scared me. It looked really it just seemed like sad. And it wasn't as scary to me as it was like, "Wow, what is going on here?" And I kind of just like, "Okay, I'm going to try to go to sleep now." And just.

Chelle: You're just like, "There's a ghost here, whatever. I need to snooze."

Dan: I'm like I'm like, "I don't know. Am I seeing things, and am I losing it?" I I don't know, but.

Laylla: You guys all think the blankets are going to save you people.

Brittany: They are. They are. They have to.

Dan: That's why they call them. That's why they call them a security blanket.

Chelle: Exactly. See, smart.

Dan: So, the next day, I talk to, um, my ex's mom, and so, like, "I saw this figure, and I'm describing it." And she goes, "Let me this sounds familiar. Let me grab an old photo book." Like an old family photo book.

Chelle: Oh, shit.

Dan: And and she starts flipping through it, and I'm like and she's like, "I know this sounds familiar." And she's someone who's very, um, very spiritually connected. She's she's a yoga teacher, one of the sweetest people in the whole wide world. She's so, you know, have good contact with her to this day. She, um, she's like, "This like it sounds really familiar." And she's like, "Does it look like this person?" And I'm like, "That is that's it. That's what I saw."

Chelle: No shit.

Dan: And she gave she explained the story behind it, that it was like a like a great-great-uncle or something during the Depression era who committed suicide. And there was a lot of people in that area who committed suicide, financially ruined, committed suicide because he he stepped right on on train tracks and got run over by a train.

Chelle: Oh, that's terrible.

Dan: There's a lot of people who in that area who unfortunately did that. Um, and the guy had like a, you know, like a like the the bowler hat or whatever and everything, and it's like handlebar mustache, very stereotypical. Wow. Of of that and the picture was one-to-one. I'm like, "That's exactly what I saw."

Chelle: Damn.

Dan: And she was so fascinated by it. I was scared to death. She's like, "Oh, my god, that is amazing." She's like, "I hope I see." She's like, "I hope I see it. I hope I see it."

Chelle: I love how neither of you were scared of this ghost.

Dan: She's she's like, "I hope I see it."

Chelle: She sounds like Chelle.

Dan: I don't think she ever did. I don't think she ever did, but like, yeah, that that that really blew me away.

Chelle: Yeah, there's proof right there. How could you see someone that you had never heard of?

Dan: I had never, never in my life. I I'd never known about this part of their family history, but it just, yeah, that was I recognized her right away.

Chelle: That's spooky. And of course, commonality, right at the end of the bed.

Dan: Mhm. That's that's where these things happen.

Brittany: That's what I say. Always got to keep your feet covered and stuff.

Laylla: I've talked about it before. That is why you have to have those little toesies covered when you sleep. They'll get you.

Dan: I tuck the bottom of the bed.

Brittany: Yeah, you always have to like real like really tucked really tight. So, like. And always like I I mentioned once, I was like, there's a thing I read online somewhere, some some joke about like how you can't keep one foot off the bed because if you do, that's where the the demons will get you. And Dan was like, "I've never heard of that." And I'm like, "They do. It's true." It's true. It's a thing. Yep.

Laylla: Yep.

Brittany: Or my dog will lick my foot and scare me, one of the two, you know.

Chelle: There you go. That'll happen.

Dan: Yeah, that'll happen.

Laylla: I don't care I don't care how hot it is, I can rip every blanket and sheet off of me, but from the ankles down has to be covered, or I wake up instantly.

Brittany: Mhm.

Chelle: Cuz of the end of the bed ghosts. There is a plague of end of the bed ghosts, apparently.

Laylla: Yes.

Dan: Yep, there is.

Brittany: That's probably what helps us, though, is our dog sleeps she has a bed right at the end of our bed, so.

Chelle: You're protected.

Brittany: She's our protect.

Dan: She wouldn't notice.

Brittany: Yeah, she she's she's 13, and she wakes up a lot at night and just like randomly barks at nothing, so.

Chelle: Oh.

Laylla: That's what you think. You think they're randomly barking at nothing.

Dan: I hope the poor girl isn't getting scared, but.

Brittany: Aw.

Dan: It'll be awful.

Brittany: Yeah, old dogs are great.

Laylla: You know, you both you both seem fortunate enough that you had people in your lives that didn't think you were batshit crazy.

Brittany: Mhm. Mhm.

Dan: Yeah, for sure.

Laylla: For each of the scenarios, when you told someone else, you were believed. And.

Dan: It's rare.

Laylla: That's important, and it is rare, and it's important because this shit happens, and you can ignore it and pretend like it doesn't, but it does, and it's spooky, and it's scary. Yeah. And and there's some sort of comfort in someone not thinking that you're lying or full of shit and crazy.

Chelle: Exactly. Absolutely. Telling you with some, you know, similar story.

Laylla: Although sometimes sometimes validation makes it scarier.

Dan: Yeah. Like, "Oh, you think you so I'm so I'm not going to crazy. Okay."

Chelle: Yeah.

Dan: "I have to deal with that."

Chelle: And until you saw that picture, Dan, you could have been like, "Oh, I just had a weird dream." But then you saw the picture, and you're like, "Oh, shit. No, that really happened."

Dan: It felt it felt way too real to be a dream, and it was like one of those things where, you know, like during it, you pinch yourself, and it's like, "Yeah, I'm not dreaming here." Mhm. And I I know she's someone who's like very open to this kind of thing. She's very much into like like reincarnation and things like that, you know. She she she's very spiritually connected person. So, like, I I thought this is someone like I could talk to her about this, and she's like, "Oh, my god." Like, "Oh, I didn't expect there to be a connection here." But there was.

Chelle: That's pretty cool.

Brittany: She's she's the sweetest. I've we've hung we've hung out with her many times, so.

Chelle: Nice. Wow.

Brittany: Even though she's his ex, we're all on very good terms.

Chelle: Yeah, you're all friends.

Dan: Mhm.

Chelle: That definitely speaks to someone's personality, for sure. What type of person they are, if you can get along like that.

Dan: Yeah.

Laylla: Yep.

Chelle: But you have a story too, Brittany?

Brittany: Yeah, I have another one. So, this one's kind of sad, but it's like always been a very big comfort to me. So, as I mentioned earlier, my dad died when I was a little kid. I was seven when he died.

Chelle: Sorry.

Brittany: Oh, it's okay. A long time ago now, so. But he was, um, it was very sudden. He had a unknown heart condition, just went out of nowhere, so.

Chelle: Oh.

Brittany: When my mom came to tell me, though, like I remember it was really weird because my mom, my grandma, I was at my grandma's house and it was, um, I think it was like just after school or something like that, and she got a phone call. And then she just like started like crying. And I was like, "What is happening?" again, I'm seven. So, I went and sat in her lap, like, "It's okay, grandma. I'm here." Like, I don't know what else to do, so.

Chelle: Oh, that's so sweet, though.

Brittany: Yeah, so. Um, but what happened is then like all of a sudden, more of our family started coming over. Like my oldest brother started coming over. Um, they're technically my half-brothers, but I just call them my brothers, so they all started coming over. A couple uncles show up, and I'm like, "What is going on? Everyone looks upset. No one's telling me what's going on." My mom apparently like wanted to be the one to tell me. So, she finally shows up, and she takes me outside, and it was like my grandma had this, uh, like little, she had a porch like right off her back, um, like of a, so it was like you could come out like from the top level or the bottom level kind of porch. And on the bottom level, there was this really nice little swing you could swing on. And I remember she sat me down in her lap and, you know, like the best way she could tell me, she was like, "Today, daddy went to heaven." And like, I just started crying. And all of a sudden, out of nowhere, from behind me, I hear his voice say, "You're an angel, too."

Chelle: Oh!

Brittany: And I remember turning around being like, because my first thought was someone has played a horrific trick on me.

Chelle: Yeah.

Brittany: And of course, he's not there, so. Um, and I remember telling my mom, and she's like, "Well, maybe that was dad trying to comfort you." And so like,

Chelle: Make me cry. Oh my goodness.

Brittany: Yeah, and I've never, I've, not super like religious, but I always felt like that, you know, like the angel idea was kind of more just like, kind of like, you know, "You're my angel," kind of thing, you know, like in a loving way. So,

Chelle: Yeah.

Brittany: that's always been a huge comfort to me. There's, at some point, I've been planning to get like a tattoo on my back that says that, but I want to put like bat wings with it because I always felt like my dad enjoyed the,

Chelle: I love that.

Brittany: My dad enjoyed the fact that I was a weird kid that liked tarantulas and stuff like that.

Chelle: Of course he did. I have chills and I'm crying at the same time. That is like, that is, and laughing, so because that is just sweet.

Brittany: Yeah, so it's always, always been a huge comfort to me that I always feel like that was like, you know, maybe there's reincarnation, maybe there's like, I don't know, it just always felt like I was like, "Well, when we die, it's not just like, you know, like, was it Frank from, from, is it Frank from, uh, like Danny DeVito's character in, It's Always Sunny?"

Dan: It's Always Sunny.

Brittany: He's like, "When you're dead, you're dead." So,

Dan: Oh god. I won't go into the rest of that quote because it gets pretty bad.

Brittany: Yeah, I know, it's terrible, but. But, you know, I was like, I always felt like, "Well, even if I don't know what it is, but maybe there's something afterwards and like, you know, that it's not just the end," kind of thing. And so, I was like, "If I'm wrong, then, hey, can't do anything about it, so."

Laylla: That's right. I've always liked this, this scientific theory that energy can neither be created nor destroyed, and we are energy. So, I don't know what happens to it, but the energy still has to exist somehow. And I, I don't know what form it takes, but I firmly believe that your dad, your dad was right there telling you you're his angel, you're an angel, too. I love that.

Dan: 100%.

Brittany: Yeah.

Chelle: Yeah.

Brittany: So, it's always been like just a huge comfort to me, but that's like one of my technical, I guess you could count as a ghost story kind of things, so.

Chelle: Oh, absolutely. Wow. Wow.

Dan: I had a similar one, actually, with my grandfather.

Brittany: Oh, yeah.

Chelle: Oh, do tell.

Brittany: I was going to say you have one, I was going to say you have one more. I was going to prompt you to tell if you didn't tell it, the, the one with your granddad when he died.

Dan: Yeah, so when, it's the same house where from the first story. So, um, his cellar, their cellar was his workshop. He was, um, like a, hob- a carpenter as a hobby.

Laylla: Right, the one the demon went to.

Dan: Yeah, his, all of his murder tools. So, he made so many, he was a master woodworker. Like, he didn't, I wish he would have gotten some more acclaim for it.

Laylla: I feel like back then every grandpa was.

Dan: Mhm. Like if, if, if he was around today, I'd probably try to help him sell stuff or something. But like he made, he made like all the railings in my parents' house out of, out of wood and stuff, and made, made furniture.

Laylla: Wow. Do you still have anything that he made?

Dan: Yes, absolutely. There's actually, um, right by my desk here, there's a, a wooden picture that he made. He did a lot of wood burning and stuff. And my grandma was pretty good painter, and he did one of The Simpsons, the family. And it's a, it's a, it's a wood carving, um, of The Simpsons. My grandma painted it, so.

Laylla: Oh, how fun.

Dan: I have that. And I have, I have other things, little knickknacks he's made, too. There was a board game he really liked called Tri-Ominos, and he made a wooden version of it. I still have that. It even has some old, um, like score sheets.

Brittany: Score sheets with it, yeah. I've, I've seen those.

Dan: When I was a kid. So, I never got rid of those. But this was like right after he passed, and he had a lot of heart issues and stuff like that. But like, he, I learned how to work with wood because of him, you know, we spent a lot of time there. And I was just a friggin' wreck. Like, even talking about it chokes me up a bit. But like, I was just so distraught, didn't know what to do. I was, he was my best friend, so I didn't know what to do. And he just, I just felt this warmth, and he just, I hear a whisper like, "It's all going to be okay."

Chelle: Oh.

Laylla: Aw.

Brittany: And you're, and he was down in like the wood shop, wood shop area in there, in the cellar that previously was creepy stuff, but then it's like now it's like this real comfort.

Dan: Oh, yeah. It was still a place of comfort for me. So, with, with that, it was just like a really positive experience, or something I really needed.

Laylla: Very much so. I can tell how close you guys were, and just to have that. Interestingly, I have a similar story. This is with my step-grandmother.

Brittany: Oh, do tell.

Laylla: And we didn't get along at all. The woman hated me. She, she was not the nicest person in the world, at least to me. Um, and I was living in Colorado at the time. I was in my early 20s, and I knew she had been sick, but I wasn't really talking too much to my family at that time. One night, I'm with my friends, we're at a pizza joint. We're sitting in a corner booth. My back is to the wall. I don't like sitting with my back to open spaces, so my back's to the wall.

Dan: I don't blame you. Things can sneak up behind you. It's not, it's not smart.

Laylla: Exactly. So, you know, we're talking, and I kept seeing what I thought was a waitress come like down the side aisle just out of my, and I kept looking to say something to her because I thought that was kind of weird. "Why are you sneaking, you know?" But there was never anybody there, and it was bugging me. And I kept asking my friends, and they're like, "There is nobody there." And I'm like, "There is a woman. She keeps coming over here. She has dark hair." And it's really freaking me out, to the point where I made them, we got our food, we got our pizza. I'm like, "I can't stay here and eat. This is really bothering me." So, we got the pizza and we left. A couple hours later, I get a phone call from my mother. My grandmother had passed away. Um, and I was like, "No shit. What time?" And it was the exact time we had been at the pizza joint. And to this day, again, it's kind of a comfort because I was sure she hated me. But I think she came to say goodbye.

Brittany: And honestly, the, the healing that that did was huge. And I, I'm pretty sure, I never saw her, it never happened again, but it was the same moment that she had passed away. And I'm sure she came to maybe say, "I'm sorry," or something. I don't know, but just knowing that she came to see me was a huge comfort.

Dan: For sure. That's beautiful.

Brittany: I've heard of that a lot. They call it a crisis apparition where right when someone's like about to die, they, they'll have something like that happen where there's someone, you know, even whether they were close or not, like will just like appear to them and they're like, and then they'll always find out it was right around that exact time was when they passed, so.

Laylla: Oh, that's wild. I didn't know it was a thing. Thank you for that. That's,

Chelle: It also could have had something to do with, uh, it's kind of like when you call somebody on the phone. If you're in a situation like a crisis apparition situation, you're going to call someone who you know is going to pick up. And Laylla is sensitive enough to those types of things that Laylla would have picked up. Whereas maybe, maybe other folks in her family might not have picked up that message, whereas Laylla would have.

Brittany: Mhm. I like that.

Chelle: So, it might have been, it might have been, "I'm going to someone who I know is going to hear me."

Laylla: Yeah.

Chelle: You know what I mean?

Laylla: And, and with you guys, with, with Dan and Brittany, you guys again, I feel, are very sensitive to that type of thing. And so, not just that you were super close to, to that person, but also because again, they knew you would pick up. You know, they, they knew that you would see that or hear, get that message, and you needed that message. I think I needed that message.

Brittany: Yeah. Yeah, for sure.

Dan: Yeah.

Chelle: Absolutely. But I do think sometimes it, it does partially have to do with who's going to hear the message. Let me go to who's going to hear me.

Brittany: Yeah.

Dan: Yeah, I could see a lot of people in my family not receiving said message, so they probably picked the right person.

Chelle: Right. Right. But you would have.

Laylla: Yeah, and, and, and you would have, so you would have been like the go-to for the family.

Dan: Yeah.

Laylla: Oh, that's kind of a neat theory. I like that.

Dan: Me too.

Laylla: It's kind of nice. I have no like scientific basis for that theory, but,

Chelle: There's a lot of logic behind it, I think.

Brittany: Yeah.

Laylla: Yeah. And, and Chelle's had experiences with, with loved ones as well. I know your grandfather is a prominent, you know,

Chelle: Yeah, I mean, I, Laylla can attest to this, that everybody who knows me that can pick up on energy has at one point in, in, in their time with me met my grandfather, whether they've liked it or not. My ex-husband, uh, at the time, uh, we had been together very long, and he kept telling me about this man who was in our bedroom doorway. And I'm like, "What are you talking about? There's no man in the doorway." And he described this person, and I was like, "Oh my god, I know exactly who that is," just based on the description. Dug through a couple of old photo albums, pulled out a picture, and he's like, "Yeah, that's exactly who it is." And it was my grandfather, um, who died when I was 10. And we were very close. My grandfather is actually the reason why I cannot sleep with my feet uncovered because shortly after his death, when I was 10, um, he appeared at the foot of my bed. So, he is the spark of why I can't sleep with my feet uncovered. But, um, I've had multiple friends, um, multiple acquaintances in certain situations be able to describe my grandfather, what he's wearing, hairstyle, everything right down to a T, where they obviously never met him, they'd never seen a picture of him, and it, it, it, it's an exact description. It, it's almost like, for me personally, if shit's about to get bad in my life, like bad shit is about to happen, my grandfather appears. When life is just trotting along, he's nowhere to be found. So, it's kind of one of those, if I start to see or sense my grandfather around, it's almost like, "Oh, shit. Now what's going to happen?"

Dan: Oh, no.

Chelle: Yeah. Yeah. But, but there has been multiple people who can just describe him right to a T, having, having no idea who he is or what he looked like.

Brittany: Wow.

Laylla: I love that, um, some ghost stories aren't scary per se, that they're comforting and loving and, and, and give us a little hope. You know, I, I have no idea what happens after people die, and, and I don't like to think about it much because it's super scary.

Dan: Same. Mortality scares the hell out of me, and I don't like it.

Laylla: Me too.

Chelle: But I also don't think they just are gone, either.

Dan: Yeah, same.

Laylla: Yeah, and I, and I love that. And I think we kind of need to hold on to that, especially when times are like they are right now. Everything's kind of shit in the world, and got to hold on to some things that are hopeful. You know, even if I am escaping into scary movies, I still want to go out and smell the flowers and have a good life.

Dan: Escape is, is a good thing. It help, it helps keep you centered and keeps some happiness in your life, even if things look bleak.

Laylla: That's right. So, on that note, what's your, do you guys have an episode coming up that you're excited about? Do you want to tell us about your, your next project?

Brittany: So, we have a couple ones that we're working on. We're going to actually do some fun comparisons of a couple of like Asian films and like the American remakes, so especially like we're going to, we've been working on it for a while, but we haven't had a chance to finish all of it yet, but we're going to be doing the Ju-On series. So, with the, the Americans, The Grudge. Okay. So, because there's a bunch of them that they did for in like the Japanese version, but then there's just a couple of the American. Don't watch the 2020 one, it was terrible.

Laylla: Waste of time.

Brittany: Yeah, the, like at least, like we both had said like, when we watched the, the first remake, the one that they just did, the first Grudge movie that came out in like the early 2000s, that one, we both recalled not liking it when we saw it, but we actually rewatched it and we're like, "This actually wasn't as bad as I recalled it being," because I think especially,

Dan: It was definitely the lesser. Like, like the original was, was far superior. I personally have a traumatic experience with that movie that has nothing to do with the movie at all.

Brittany: We both went on bad dates to see the movie. That's, that's, that's very, very bad, horrifying. Like, to the point where I'm like,

Laylla: The same movie? You guys went on, that's funny.

Dan: This movie's awful, and this person is even more awful, and I think they're making the movie awful, and I just want to run as fast as I possibly can.

Brittany: See, mine wasn't the, the date wasn't bad at the time. It was actually a guy I like, well, I dated, I dated for like two weeks in high school, and so like, but it was like, so when we broke up so shortly after, I think my mind was just like, "Nope, that was bad." So, I decided that the movie was bad. But watching it as an adult, I was like, "Oh, you know what? This actually wasn't as bad as I thought." I like that it was the original director actually came in to direct it, which a lot of times they don't do that with a lot of the remakes. They just kind of make it very Hollywood and that's it, you know. So,

Laylla: Yeah, why, why are they always so bad? Do it good. If you're going to do a remake, make it good.

Chelle: That was originally an Asian movie?

Brittany: Yes, Japanese. So, there's actually, um, four, so there's like two that are, um, kind of like more just like shorts that lead up to it, and then there's two Ju-On movies, and then the third movie is actually The Grudge, and that's the one that they remade, so.

Dan: Yeah. The first two are on YouTube, first two movies are on YouTube. They're scary as hell. They're very, very low budget, but very good. But the feeling is there, man. It's, they're so good.

Laylla: I'm a fan of low-budget horror.

Dan: The, the American equivalents still won't hold up. And unfortunately, a lot of times that's the case. They try to take something that from another place, then they try to dumb it down for a mass audience, and it ends up being really crappy. The original Grudge is good, and it's because the original director was involved. I'm convinced if they weren't involved, it would have been trash. Just like the 2020 one is utter garbage, and it's not even worth watching the trailer.

Brittany: Yeah, no, we watched it because I was just like, "Yeah, we'll just watch it." And I was like, "Oh my gosh."

Dan: Don't do it.

Brittany: We're, we're completionists. So, like we're going to do this comparison, we're going to watch all of them, even the ones that are going to make you want to weep. Yeah.

Chelle: You guys must watch a lot of movies at home.

Brittany: We do.

Dan: We do, yeah.

Laylla: Why make a movie, a remake that's going to be bad? I'm really hoping that like the success of Squid Game means that we can take more foreign films and just have them, and not have to try and re- Americanize them.

Brittany: They're, they're remaking Squid Game.

Laylla: No! No! No!

Brittany: Yes, I'm sorry.

Laylla: Okay, never mind.

Dan: There's, there's another one called, a wonderful movie called Train to Busan.

Laylla: Oh, I think I've heard of that.

Dan: And unfortunately, they're working on a remake of that, and they're going to make it terrible.

Laylla: Why? Why?

Dan: It's, it's all, it's all about trying to, well, make money off of something that exists so you'd have no original idea, so you just got to remake something, and they try to dumb it down for a mass audience and make it really easy entry kind of thing. They, they take all the, the heart and the, and the creativity out of it.

Chelle: That's too bad.

Chelle: In reality, if they would have left it the way it was, they would have probably made more money and spent less.

Laylla: Yeah. Yeah. Well, that will be interesting then. So, check out Brittany and Dan on We All Pod Down Here for all your horror insights.

Brittany: We've just, we've had a blast with this.

Dan: Yeah, this has been great.

Brittany: Obviously, obviously our next episode's going to be the crossover doing with you guys where you guys can come on our podcast and talk about Veronica.

Laylla: Yeah, oh, I cannot wait. Thank you guys. Thank you, Brittany and Dan, for being on The Stoned Witches Hour. I hope you all had as much fun as we did.

Dan: We did. Thank you for having us so much. This was a blast.

Laylla: Absolutely. We'll have to do it again, maybe with, uh, Robert the Doll movie or something.

Brittany: Yeah, love to.

Dan: Yeah.

Chelle: Absolutely.

Laylla: Thank you for listening to Laylla and Chelle and our special guests, Brittany and Dan from the podcast We All Pod Down Here. Join them to learn more about horror films, both new and old, popular and obscure. If you've listened this far, please rate and review The Stoned Witches Hour on your favorite podcast app. It really helps us out.

Laylla: Spooky later.
