Hello and welcome to episode seven of The Stoned Witches Hour. It's 4:20 a.m. and we're about to tell true-ish tales of restless, amorous bones, learn about Laylla's synchronistic city triad, and hear about the time Chelle was terrified of a baby bonnet. Join Laylla and Chelle as they smoke through their weed stash and creep each other out with stories both metaphysical and macabre.

Laylla: Did you know that this episode is the episode right before Valentine's Day?

Chelle: Oh wow, I didn't even realize that.

Laylla: Yeah. One of the fun things that I've heard about, I wish I had this idea, Chelle, we should have done this. For Valentine's Day, you could give your love a marijuana bouquet.

Chelle: From where?

Laylla: There's a whole bunch of places that do it. They vary from dried flowers and like eucalyptus and buds to gorgeous fresh flowers with roses and lilies and tulips, whatever type of floral bouquet you can think of, and amazing organic pot right in the bouquet. They look stunning. I'm going to share my screen so you can see some of these bouquets because you are going to shit your pants.

Chelle: All I have to say is God bless America.

Laylla: Right? Who doesn't love that? Look at that.

Chelle: Oh my god. I want that bouquet of flowers.

Laylla: Ah, oops, those are the sex CBD things. Hold on, we'll get to those in a minute. That's the next topic. All right, let's see. So, we have pot leaves and roses and pot and just all sorts of stuff that you can get delivered for Valentine's Day.

Chelle: That is amazing.

Laylla: If you can do legal delivery, somebody can do this. And if they're not doing it, Chelle, do it quick.

Chelle: Wow. I love it.

Laylla: Aren't those great? So, yeah.

Chelle: How fun is that?

Laylla: So, yeah, for Valentine's Day, find out if the florist near you delivers weed bouquets. Cuz, I mean, that would definitely get you laid, I think.

Chelle: Yeah, and they're gorgeous and smokeable and yeah, I'm pretty sure they'd probably get you laid.

Laylla: How fun is that? Who needs chocolates when you can get a marijuana bouquet?

Chelle: Right?

Laylla: Yeah. And then, let's see, where's the other website that I was showing you? I have to say, probably one of my absolute favorite things with legalization has been all the freaking science.

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: So much science. They've found that cannabis can help, I mean, not just people with pain and anxiety and things like that, which, well, that's wonderful. I know it helps people with seizures and all sorts of stuff, and I think that's fantastic. It has also found that it can help like period-related pain. I use it for fibroid pain. Science has also discovered that it can increase your libido, it can make it easier to orgasm. It's amazing for people as far as sex goes. Who would have thought?

Chelle: Who would have thought?

Laylla: Right?

Chelle: You find out the most interesting shit.

Laylla: Is that not crazy? Well, okay, so they've they found out that our body produces endocannabinoids naturally, right? You've heard that?

Chelle: Actually, no.

Laylla: We have the whole endocannabinoid system in our brain and our nervous system.

Chelle: Uh-huh.

Laylla: And so, smoking pot actually helps contribute to that, and that's why it helps people with all sorts of different things. There is an indication they've found that cannabinoids, like the ones that occur in the in the pot plant, play a significant role in sex drive and in sex in human beings. They've found that people who smoke pot have more sex than people who don't smoke pot.

Chelle: How do you get into these surveys? How do you go to Harvard and say, "Do you got any sex/pot smoking stuff going on? Cuz I'm interested. Sign me up." Like, who's the recruiter for these surveys? That's what I want to know. What's your pitch? What's your pitch?

Laylla: I know. The best survey I saw here was about smoking pot and driving, and I lived too far away to participate in it. But, yeah. Who is doing these surveys? There was a study in 2017, and I have to look it back up and see who did it. But they found that cannabis activated the part of our brains that's associated with sexual arousal. So, using cannabis can really help people, you know, it can help you relax, it can help you get into the mood, and and there are a ton of products because, you know, we love to sell things. So, there's like Sensua-La-Tea, which is, you know, like drinkable pot, so you get like the THC. You can, you know, drink a cup of tea before you get in the mood. They've got creams and lotions and oils. It's just, hey, have the best Valentine's Day yet. Just use a little cannabis.

Chelle: Haven't we been doing that for like 25, 30 years already, just smoking it?

Laylla: I'm not trying to sell you on this. We've been doing this. We've been doing this. No, I'm trying to help everybody else out there. I can say that at one of the festivals that we went to, there was a there was a vendor and they had some creams that they were using. You know how you can like infuse THC into like butters and things like that? Well, they had creams for back pain, and my husband has back pain and not a lot helps it. So, we got a couple samples for that. Well, they also had samples for a little intimate THC oil. So, we got a sample of each, and let me tell you, they both worked wonders. They were amazing. So, you know, I'm saying.

Chelle: He didn't have back pain. That was just a segue to get into the intimacy oils.

Laylla: The intimacy oil. No, actually, he really does have back pain, and the cream really did help. Yeah, yeah. I miss festivals. I miss going to festivals.

Chelle: I miss festivals a lot, and and my fear is, A, we're too old to keep up with that shit, and B, that COVID has changed the face of festivals forever.

Laylla: You keep saying that. Never too old. Never too old. The best time to do things is right now. Right now, Chelle. Seize the moment. You are not too old to do a damn thing.

Chelle: COVID has killed my festival summers.

Laylla: Okay, COVID has kind of fucked every single festival. No pagan festivals, no pot festivals, no music festivals. It has been a really hard two years.

Chelle: Yeah. Yeah.

Laylla: But, in better news.

Chelle: But, you can still have a great Valentine's Day. You know, maybe just stay in.

Laylla: You can still have a great Valentine's Day. Get your food DoorDashed, get yourself a bouquet of cannabis and roses, have some sensuality and a little intimacy oil, and away you go. What more do you need?

Chelle: Jeez, you got my night planned.

Laylla: Right? So, on that note. Oh shit, are we still connected?

Chelle: Oh, there you are.

Laylla: Hi.

Chelle: Hi.

Laylla: Yay. Well, at least this isn't as bad as the other day.

Chelle: Oh my god.

Laylla: I mean, that was.

Chelle: The stars were against you.

Laylla: It was all bad.

Chelle: Mercury retrograde was fucking you with no lube that day.

Laylla: Yes, with no THC intimacy oil that day.

Chelle: None. Not a drop.

Laylla: And we could have used it. Right? All right, well, I'll get my torch and dab rig ready. What are you smoking tonight, Chelle?

Chelle: I am smoking White Wedding, which is currently, from the store I obtained it from, was given the High Times Massachusetts Cannabis Cup first place award.

Laylla: Ooh, that sounds so fancy, so so well-rounded, so well-awarded. What's the what's the word I'm looking for? Cultivar?

Chelle: Cultivar, that's right. Yeah.

Laylla: Cultivar, yes. So, this particular cultivar, White Wedding, Massachusetts Cannabis Cup number one, 2021, it's a good high. Nice, nice. I am dabbing some Crystal Coma. It's a nice sativa. It's a nug run shatter, again from my local delivery place.

Chelle: I just love the name, by the way.

Laylla: Crystal Coma, right? You got to love it. And in honor of Girl Scout cookies season, I am smoking some Platinum Cookies, otherwise known as Platinum Girl Scout Cookies.

Chelle: Ooh.

Laylla: Yeah, pretty yummy. It doesn't taste like cookies, Chelle. No, but it is sweet. It has a very nice flavor. I really like it, and it's just an excellent high. I mean, the best kind of high to just kick back and eat some Girl Scout cookies, which I do not have yet. I want to try some of the new ones.

Chelle: I am I heard there was a a new few flavors of Girl Scout cookies.

Laylla: Isn't there one with like brownies and caramel?

Chelle: I yeah, I have no idea. I am.

Laylla: Oh, I cannot wait to try that.

Chelle: I'm hearing about a lemon one. Like, I need to try these, and I have lost my Girl Scout cookie hookup.

Laylla: At the very least, they'll be outside the supermarket, right? They're outside the grocery store.

Chelle: I got to find me some Girl Scouts selling Girl Scout cookies.

Laylla: You need a new Girl Scout cookie hookup.

Chelle: Anybody in the greater Boston area know a Girl Scout cookie hookup, drop us a line.

Laylla: Email us. Email us at thestonedwicheshour@gmail.com. Tell us your Girl Scout cookie hookup. We'll buy some. So, yeah, that sounds good. That'll be that's great stuff to just smoke. So, Valentine's Day. Valentine's Day, so after you have sent your, you know, your love a beautiful bouquet of your favorite, favorite, oh my god, I'm so fucking high.

Chelle: More pot on eucalyptus plants.

Laylla: Oh, I love eucalyptus. I do. I love roses. I love eucalyptus.

Chelle: I love weed.

Laylla: I love weed. A bouquet of weed and flowers, and you've got your great food and some chocolate. Why don't you tell them a ghost story? And have I got a ghost story for you. I actually have a ghost story about a romantic ghost, Chelle.

Chelle: A romantic ghost? That's kind of intriguing. Tell me, tell me.

Laylla: All right. In the spirit of Valentine's Day, I have got an amorous ghost for you, Chelle.

Chelle: Oh, do tell.

Laylla: Well, maybe it's not really a ghost, I guess. More so a skeleton or bones. I'm not sure. You're going to have to tell me what you think when after I tell you the story.

Chelle: Get a little creeped out already.

Laylla: Right? Okay, so this is in Colorado. I'm going to tell you the true story of a gentleman named J. Dawson Hidgepath from back East, not sure where. He came to a mining town in Colorado called Buckskin around 1863. And he went.

Chelle: Buckskin?

Laylla: Buckskin, yeah. Yeah. Well, you know, they weren't very creative in naming towns back then. They were all like Buckskin and Baby Doe and Gold Rush and.

Chelle: Boulder.

Laylla: Boulder, right? Right? That's not very creative.

Chelle: We love people in Boulder, by the way.

Laylla: Me too. I love I lived in Colorado for a little while, which is kind of funny because a town that I lived in, which is really obscure, shows up in this story. That freaked me out. All right, so J. Dawson Hidgepath came to Buckskin, a mining town in Colorado, to try and become a prospector. He's looking for silver and gold. And in addition to trying to find gold, Hidgepath was also looking for a wife, and he was a hopeless romantic. He was looking for a woman, any woman, to be his lady love. This dude had no scruples, either. He hit on everyone in town. And considering that being the Wild West and during the gold rush time, there weren't very many women to begin with in this town, and he pursued every single one. It didn't matter if they were married, if they were children, if they were schoolmarms, if they were dance hall girls, he pursued them all. He would write them poetry and bring them flowers. He'd sing.

Chelle: Are you sure this isn't about somebody I know?

Laylla: Who do you know?

Chelle: A lot of guys a lot of guys like that.

Laylla: You know, a lot of guys have trouble taking no for an answer, and J. Dawson was no exception. So, these women, he was refused over and over and over again, and he would come back every time with more flowers and a more flamboyant poem. And so, he chased all these women in town. And honestly, it's surprise, you'd think he would have been killed by someone, by somebody's pissed off husband or overprotective papa. But, no.

Chelle: You know you know where he went wrong? He wasn't sending them marijuana bouquets.

Laylla: See? Now, those are the flowers he should have been picking. And, you know, it's legal in Colorado. I'm sure it was legal back in 1860-something, probably.

Chelle: Exactly.

Laylla: Right, yeah. So, if he'd done that along with some of those THC oils, he would have been in. But, no. There is apparently written record of a J. Dawson Hidgepath getting arrested or getting beaten up, you know, disturbing the peace, more than likely by the pimp from the pimp of a woman he thought he was in love with or the husband of a woman that he flirted a little bit too much with. So, J. Dawson did not die at the fists of another man. No, he was killed in a kind of shitty accidental way. On July 23rd, 1865, Hidgepath fell to his death. And depending on which version you believe, he was either out on the mountain picking flowers for his latest lady love or he was working his mine, but either way, he fell off a cliff, broke his neck, and died. Another miner saw the body, and they went and they got some townspeople to come up and try and find him, and they discovered his distinctive hat. He would wear this bowler hat that had like a um like a medallion on it.

Chelle: Uh-huh.

Laylla: So, they found the hat and they knew it was J. Dawson, and then they found his kind of mangled body. They took him back and buried him in the cemetery, and, you know, maybe the ladies in town were a little relieved, you know, one less hopeless romantic kind of pining after all the poor, beleaguered women in town, right? So, J. Dawson Hidgepath was not to be deterred by a no, and in this case, by death either. So, he remained a hopeless romantic even after dead, even after being dead, even after death, whatever. So, he's still a hopeless romantic. And the way we know this is because not more than a few days after he was buried, a young married woman, who had been one of the most recent women that J. Dawson had been flirting with, heard a knock at her door. And as she opened the door, a slip of paper flew underneath it, and she looked up from watching the paper to see a skeleton standing against the post of her porch holding a bouquet of flowers. And she fainted dead away.

Chelle: Like the actual bones or an apparition?

Laylla: No, the actual skeleton wearing J. Dawson Hidgepath's hat holding a bouquet of flowers standing there as if to pay court to the young married lady.

Chelle: That's fucked up.

Laylla: When the men got there after having heard her scream, they found her fainted and the skeleton still there. She woke up babbling about bones and Hidgepath, and they found the letter and it was a poem written to her from J. Dawson.

Chelle: Oh wow.

Laylla: So, they carried his bones back to the cemetery to an empty grave where they reburied his bones. So, they knew it had to have been him.

Chelle: No.

Laylla: Yes. Yes, that did not end his romantic escapades. Mr. J. Dawson Hidgepath then started showing up on the porch and in the beds of women all over town.

Chelle: So, his bones were just creeping out of the dirt every night?

Laylla: Every few days, he would show up. Like, one young woman woke up to find him tucked into bed next to her holding a poem in his hand wearing his hat.

Chelle: Wouldn't you shit? I'd die. I'd die. I'd totally die.

Laylla: Another lady, who was kind of short-sighted, he showed up in her kitchen and she thought they were soup bones, and thankfully her son came in and fished them out of the pot before things got a little dicey.

Chelle: Oh my god.

Laylla: As you would think, the townspeople were perplexed. Everyone was freaking out. No one knew what was happening because every time they found his bones, his grave was empty. So, they started to get creative with how they returned his bones back to this grave. One time they even buried it under a big huge boulder thinking that that would stop him, and it didn't. He showed up on the porch of the daughter of the local minister holding a bouquet and a poem just like before, and of course, wearing his distinctive hat.

Chelle: That's when you move away. Move. Pack your shit.

Laylla: Well, the whole town moved. The whole town moved. Buckskin was just a mining town, and so actually after a couple years, it dried up and people, a lot of people went to the nearby town of Alma. And so did J. Dawson Hidgepath. He started showing up just like before on the porch and in the beds of local women in town, each time with his hat. Finally, after like a decade of this, someone got absolutely fed up. Various reports say it was someone's husband, it was the minister, or it was the father to a young woman that he had frightened with his bones, gathered up J. Dawson Hidgepath's bones, his hat, and his latest poem and took them over the mountain pass to a little town called Leadville, where I used to live. A little town called Leadville, Colorado, and he found on the outskirts where some miners were, there was an outhouse, and he threw J. Dawson's bones down into the outhouse saying, "No gentleman, and certainly no one looking for a wife, would ever show up at a lady's house smelling like shit." And sure enough, J. Dawson never appeared in anyone's home again. However, it's rumored that if you find just the right outhouse, you might hear, if you sit down, coming from beneath you in his, you know, in his distinctive voice, "Will you be my own?"

Chelle: If I heard that coming from below my ass, I would I don't even know what I'd do. I'd die. I'd die.

Laylla: Can you imagine some like southeastern drawl coming up from the shitter being like, "Will you be my own?"

Chelle: After I pee, let me think about it. I don't know.

Laylla: Supposedly, the outhouse where his bones were has long been covered over, or back in the '70s, I guess it was covered over. But there were reports, supposedly, of a ghost haunting the outhouse anytime a woman would go in.

Chelle: See now, I don't understand. I would have gone all like witchcraft and stuff, and I would have burned those bones well before that first 10 years.

Laylla: Well, then you would have gotten burned as a witch back in that day.

Chelle: Probably.

Laylla: Maybe they thought the better course was just to faint dead away and let the menfolk take care of it.

Chelle: Yeah, right.

Laylla: Because otherwise, you know, if you try to do anything brave or, you know, do the right thing and take care of it. You're a witch, dang it. You'll be hanging from a tree.

Chelle: Right?

Laylla: So there you go. There's the amorous ghost of J. Dawson Hedgepeth from Buckskin, Colorado, with a minor showing by Leadville, Colorado, my old stomping grounds. It's the highest populated point in the US, you know.

Chelle: Wow. I feel like you got a lot of Colorado stories lately. Is this like a haunted state that I'm unaware of?

Laylla: Well, it is an old mining state, so yeah, I think there's a lot of things there.

Chelle: Like gold rush town kind of thing?

Laylla: Sure. And I'm sure subconsciously maybe I'm drawn to Colorado because that is one of the places I've lived and I really liked it there. But Leadville itself has a lot of ghosts. I used to live on a street called Baby Doe Drive, and there's a lot of stories about her.

Chelle: I have never been west of the Mississippi at this particular moment in time in my life. I am very unfamiliar with your territory.

Laylla: All right, so that was my story. What do you what did you think? What did you think about the amorous the amorous is it ghost? Amorous ghost or amorous bones? Like the story is called the Amorous Ghost of J. Dawson Hedgepeth, but it's really like...

Chelle: He's not a ghost.

Laylla: Like what do you call that? That's not a zombie. What what's an what's an ambulatory skeleton? Like what's the term for that?

Chelle: You're right. It's not a zombie. It's not a ghost. It's not a apparition. It is a like... I don't even know.

Laylla: Not a zombie. I don't know. Ambulatory skeleton is the best I can come up with. So if anybody out there knows what that is, what is it called when somebody's bones keep getting up and like haunting people? What is that?

Chelle: That's called some scary shit. That's what that's called.

Laylla: Other than a very dedicated practical joke. It's either like a super dedicated practical joke or, you know, just crazy horny bones. Super horny bones.

Chelle: Were those bones rubbing on the CBD THC oil?

Laylla: You know, hey, who knows? Who knows what was growing up on that mountain back in the day? So what are you snacking on today, Chelle? You got any snacks or any munchies going on over there?

Chelle: So normally, I am the salty snacker. But tonight, I kind of was very interested in the Quaker Chewy Granola Bars that have the chocolate chips in them. So that is my current snack of choice.

Laylla: Chocolate chip granola bars. That sounds delish. I'm going with the tried and true California almonds and caramel corn. California almonds and caramel corn. I love caramel corn. It's a very festival food, caramel corn. Do you know my first edible was a ganja gooball? Was caramel corn and it was like peanut butter and caramel and popcorn and and all sorts of stuff. It was cannabutter, you know, that someone had created in their kitchen or whatever at a festival and they were going around and they had made these popcorn balls. They called them ganja gooballs. And man, they got you really, really high. Really stoned.

Chelle: I think the first edibles I ever had were like the the traditional, I call them traditional, Rice Krispies Treat. And I was I was rocked. That very first Rice Krispies Treat, I was rocked. I think there are a grouping of people that do not like edibles and do not get that same high from them.

Laylla: I was one of those people, but only because I mistakenly took too much. I mean, at festivals, honestly, my experiences were all good. I can say that, you know, the ganja gooballs and the brownies and the Rice Krispies Treats that I got from festivals, I never had a problem with that. It was the it was my buddy, I think, who was trying to show off and who made these way too potent little muffins, and those hurt. And they kind of, yeah, they kind of put me off for a couple years. And I think that happens to people. You know, you get something that you don't know the dosage of, and you really should be careful. One small bite and see how wait an hour, see how it affects you.

Chelle: Right. Right.

Laylla: There's always those jokes and the, you know, the memes that you see where people are like, "These edibles aren't shit," and then you eat more, and then they're on the floor like they've turned into a puddle of colors and they're nothing. They're just goo on the floor. There's nothing left of them.

Chelle: Yeah, you're drooling in the corner.

Laylla: Yeah, so you got to be careful. Take it slow. Take a bite or two at a time. Wait an hour, maybe wait two hours before you try a little bit more. But if you don't know the potency, be careful. Oh, and CBDs, keep CBDs handy if you ever do kind of have too much. If you ever have too much of an edible, if you smoke too much, taking CBDs can really help. And interestingly enough, if you have whole black peppers, like peppercorns, take two or three of those black peppercorns and you can chew them for a little relief if you feel too high. Like only if you like black pepper, though.

Chelle: Interesting tips and tricks.

Laylla: There you go.

Chelle: Wow. And that public service announcement was brought to you by Laylla, the grower.

Laylla: So yeah.

Chelle: I was going to tell you a story that was more of a personal experience story tonight.

Laylla: Oh, that's awesome. That's right. You mentioned you were going to tell us a place that you went sometime without me, which I hate, but I'm excited to hear a new story.

Chelle: It's not necessarily Valentine's Day related.

Laylla: That's okay.

Chelle: But I I this is one of those things that kind of got me into wanting to experience scary things. Not just you like it, you're interested in it. This kind of was one of those things that got me into that, "I want to go seek things out." I want to go get myself in scary situations.

Laylla: You wanted to get involved, like get your hands dirty.

Chelle: Yeah, and and, you know, you hear about all these experiences people have and, you know, they say they see things, they say they hear things. Well, that's all fine and good, but you don't really get it until you've experienced it yourself, and then you're like, "Holy shit. That's a ghost."

Laylla: That's very true.

Chelle: So I wanted to talk about a place in Pennsylvania. Fall Brook Cemetery in Tioga County, Pennsylvania. This town was actually it it was a town back in the 1860s, and it was a coal mining town, a coal production town.

Laylla: Oh, so we're both talking about mining towns. How interesting.

Chelle: Yes, because in case you are not aware, a lot of Pennsylvania was coal mining back in the, yep, yep, back in the 1800s. This is about, I don't know, it's it's closer to the New York border. But this basically, this was a a coal town, and it was founded by a man named John Magee, and he had kind of discovered coal in that area. What he also did was construct a railroad to connect Fall Brook with Corning, New York. I know you're familiar with Corning, New York.

Laylla: What is it tonight with towns that I've lived in? Leadville, Colorado, Corning, New York. What is this, like Laylla visits old haunted home week or something? Okay. All right, so he built a railroad to go to Corning, New York.

Chelle: He did. That is where the coal was then transported up the Erie Canal. So it makes sense. Again, we're talking about 1860. Fall Brook had a population of around 1,400, 1,500 people. But as you can imagine, at some point, the coal ran out. So the only reason this town really existed was because of the coal. As you are personally familiar with that rural part of the the Northeast, not not a whole lot going on.

Laylla: No, like so much of Pennsylvania, coal mining was like the only thing that they had for generations.

Chelle: Right. Right. So there's not a lot going on. So when the coal kind of ran out, by the by by 1900, the town basically ceased to exist. People had no choice but to go to other towns and cities because there was no jobs.

Laylla: Yeah, because there was nothing there. Yeah.

Chelle: Right. Right. Interestingly enough, the town of Fallbrook, California, is named after this town.

Laylla: Hey, Google, how far away is Fallbrook, California, from here?

Guest: You are 31.5 miles away from Fallbrook by car.

Laylla: 31.5 miles.

Chelle: Oh, wow.

Laylla: Okay, yeah, so this is haunted Laylla time. Go ahead, whatever. Fine. The ghosts are fucking with me today. I don't care. I don't care.

Chelle: Wow. This is kind of creepy. I'm glad I'm not with you tonight.

Laylla: Oh, we should put it on a map and see. Leadville, Corning, and Fallbrook. Right?

Chelle: All right, anyways, keep All right, go ahead, Chelle. Keep on with the story.

Laylla: It kind of became a a quote-unquote ghost town because it was abandoned. And as you can imagine, you know, 1,400, 1,500 people lived there for about 40-some years. So there were buildings, there was a cemetery, there, you know, there there was it had been a town, for God's sakes. During the time that this was actually a town, another oddly tragic thing, the plague went through. Huh, weird, here we are again.

Chelle: Oh, no, not another plague.

Laylla: Yeah, smallpox went rampant through that area. Many children passed away.

Chelle: Oh, that's really sad. I hate all the stories where the kids, you know, like our Dooling Axe Murders, where all the kids die. That always makes me sad.

Laylla: This cemetery, this particular cemetery, that it was the cemetery for the town in the 40 years that it had existed. But the cemetery, um, due to it being a mining town and due to smallpox going rampant through the town, the cemetery was mostly filled with either miners or children.

Chelle: So miners or minors.

Laylla: Miners or minors. Exactly. So as you can imagine, you know, with with smallpox and it being a mining town, that that cemetery had kind of filled up and became actually the most populated spot in the small town.

Chelle: Oh, there were more dead people than alive people? At one point, yeah.

Laylla: And most of them were kids?

Chelle: Um, yeah. Yeah. That had died that had died of of the sickness.

Laylla: When you said this wasn't a Valentine's story, I didn't I didn't realize you were going to like tell a total bummer of a story.

Chelle: Apparently. Apparently. But again, with with coal being its one and only source of income, the town fell into despair and was abandoned by 1900. Even to this day, only a few block foundations and the dilapidated cemetery remain. So the cemetery, it's still basically there, but it's not one of those cemeteries that is kept up, necessarily. There has been, in the last 10 years or so, a couple of historic organizations that have tried to mow the grass every few years and things of that nature. But essentially, think of this as an abandoned cemetery in the middle of the woods in freaking rural Northern PA.

Laylla: So if I can imagine, basically, this has been left to nature. There's trees growing up through everything, bushes, grass, weeds, probably a mess.

Chelle: Correct.

Laylla: Like most rural places, I'm sure there's the occasional fire pit, broken beer bottles, and a little bit of garbage here and there.

Chelle: No.

Laylla: Really?

Chelle: You'll you'll find out why as I continue.

Laylla: That's surprising, because there's one thing that rural New Yorkers and Pennsylvania kids know how to do, and that's find a fucking spot to party.

Chelle: But you know what? This is this is a spot that that people are legitimately afraid of.

Laylla: No shit.

Chelle: And...

Laylla: Enough that the teens stay away and don't go out there drinking and smoking? I'm impressed.

Chelle: Exactly. About 25, 27 years ago, I had a friend who was going to college at Mansfield University, which was nearby to this. As a part of his fraternity kind of hazing, they would take people to this cemetery. Now, if you go on, if you Google things like most haunted places in Pennsylvania, this does come up on the top of most lists.

Laylla: In order to ascend to the heights of a fraternity hazing ritual, it's got to have a reputation. I mean, it's got to be known as super scary.

Chelle: Right. So so, you know, we have this I have this friend who had come across, "Hey, here's a cemetery. Everybody says it's haunted, even the townspeople are kind of sketched out by it." So of course, you know, at that point, I was probably maybe 19 or 20 years old. So I'm like, "Let's do this."

Laylla: Somebody says it's the most haunted place, and that is your first reaction. Chelle's like, "Oh, yeah, I'm going." Like, the only question is when.

Chelle: I was I was on board with that. And so you figure this was probably roughly around 1995, and I had just gotten my first camcorder.

Laylla: How big was it? Was it bigger than your head?

Chelle: Yeah, don't judge me.

Laylla: Did you take like the full-size VHS tapes? Did it take the full ones?

Chelle: It did. It did. Don't judge me.

Laylla: That's awesome.

Chelle: It was 1995.

Laylla: It was probably like cutting edge for the time. I love that. And the battery, oh my god, the battery pack was probably like as big as your freaking hand.

Chelle: Actually, the I think the battery pack is bigger than my current cell phone. How great is that? All right, so you had this amazing camcorder.

Chelle: So I had just gotten this amazing camcorder, and I had in my mind, "I am going to videotape my experience going to this cemetery." Who wouldn't, right? Well, in my mind, who wouldn't? I I'm with a couple of friends and we load up and off we go. We have Now, that was back when cell phones were like flip phones. So I have my little flippy phone, I have my camcorder, and and off I go. Now, this was because, like I said, it's kind of a abandoned cemetery in the middle of the woods in rural Pennsylvania, not the easiest of accessible locations. You get to a certain point that you can drive, but then you've got to walk about half a mile into the woods. We had taken the cell phone, taken the camcorder, and locked the car. Now, that is key to down the road in the story. The car was locked.

Laylla: Okay, I've I've put it in my stone brain, right in the memory banks. The car was locked. Okay, I got it. I'll I'll remember.

Chelle: And then take this maybe quarter-mile, half-mile hike into the woods to to what was supposed to be the entrance to the cemetery. So it's one of those creepy, like dirt old dirt road where like the forest goes right up to the edge of the road on both sides. You know what atmosphere I'm talking about, like like Jason Voorhees, axe murderer, we're all going to die tonight kind of environment.

Laylla: Like you're absolutely sure right around the next tree trunk there's going to absolutely be a serial killer right there ready to get you. And your car's going to die, because that's what happens in all the movies.

Chelle: Either that or Bigfoot, one of the other.

Laylla: Bigfoot, right.

Chelle: So we're going down this path, and there's three of us. And, you know, I'm feeling pretty safe because, if nothing else, out of the three of us, I was the only girl. So as we get closer...

Laylla: Wait, wait, wait. You were the only girl. Doesn't that mean in the in the if this was a scary movie, you'd be the first one to die? Or no, no, wait. No, you'd be the only one to live. Okay, never mind. Sorry.

Chelle: I think I'd be the only one to live.

Laylla: Yeah, you're right. You'd be the only one to live. Okay, scratch that. All right, so you're safe. So you know you're safe. All right.

Chelle: So I feel like I'm I'm relatively safe. And, you know, because I'm from that general vicinity, I pretty I feel pretty confident and safe in my abilities to be in the woods at night. So here I go down this path, and I you approach an old wooden sign. It almost just looks like a slab of wood someone carved out with a knife, and it just says Fall Brook Cemetery. Right from the get-go, you know, you're expecting some sort of professional signage, and it's like some carved wood piece of wood, and you're like, "All right."

Laylla: Right, like some crazy old dude with a big long beard and a shack on the edge of the property carved it out with his like hunting knife, you know, and then he slapped it up there to scare everybody away.

Chelle: Basically, yes. So, you know, and I'm all into it, and I'm, you know, I got my camcorder, and, you know, I'm I'm recording everything left and right. And you know, I mean, you're familiar with these old-style camcorders, it had a light on it, which, of course, I found comforting as well because it had like this little like spotlighty thing. So we get to the entrance of this thing, the cemetery. All of a sudden, everything went dead silent.

Laylla: Like the insects and all that? You know, it's nighttime. It's nighttime in the in rural Pennsylvania, out in the in the backwoods of Pennsylvania. You know there's crickets, there's all sorts of noise.

Chelle: It was like all the sound got sucked from the air.

Laylla: Oh. Oh, I've experienced that before. That's eerie. That's an eerie moment.

Chelle: And being of a being of a witchy persuasion, it it really that freaked me out because I'm like, I knew that I was hearing the crickets and the bugs and, you know, the things you hear at night in the woods. There was a very distinct point where there was definitely the crickets in the woodsy-type noises, and then there wasn't.

Laylla: That was something that you picked right up on, yeah.

Chelle: Yes. You know, when you grow up being in the woods at night, so when you hear that dead silence, that spooks you.

Laylla: Yeah, it's noticeable. It's almost loud.

Chelle: It is. It is. It is. It's like that deafening silence. So, you know, we were in this foresty, woodsy area. The cemetery kind of opens up to like a circular clearing. So I'm thinking, here I am in a circular clearing, all the sound has been sucked from the air, I'm a witch and I'm going to die here tonight because something spooky is about to go down. But I still got my camcorder, still got my flip phone, and I am ready...

Laylla: You might die, but you're going to record every last fucking moment.

Chelle: I am there. I am there to record some ghosty footage, and damn it, I wanted my ghosty footage.

Laylla: And you're going to Blair Witch it if it's the last thing you do.

Chelle: You know, this was before Blair Witch, but I was totally Blair Witching it, totally. Yeah. So you start hear, you know, you so imagine this dead silence where it sounds like all the all the sound was sucked from the air, but then all of a sudden you hear like footsteps. You know, crunching on the leaves, footsteps?

Laylla: Yeah.

Chelle: Yeah. But like still no crickets, still no wind. Oh, and that was the other thing, no wind, and it was windy walking down the path. It was like the earth stopped in that round clearing area.

Laylla: So you get down to the cemetery and not only is there no more wind, you can't hear the wind, you don't hear any insects, you're not moving, and you hear footsteps. Oh my god!

Chelle: So, you know, all of a sudden I'm like, "All right, shit's about to get real here." We start walking around and start looking at some of the tombstones because also, you know, I like history and and that interests me. And I was noticing there was a lot of tombstones that had like hand positions on it and, you know, different...

Laylla: Oh, like hand symbols or like, like, um, ASL signs?

Chelle: Yeah, maybe I don't know if they were ASL signs, but like they looked like they could have been. And then I saw there is actually a witch buried there.

Laylla: Oh. How do you know it was a witch?

Chelle: Because the tombstone told me so.

Laylla: Really? Oh, how cool! What did it say? Was it in a bad way or in a good way? Or just neutral, like, "Hey, here's a witch, she's dead."

Chelle: I don't remember. I don't think it was like in a Salem witch trials kind of way, but in a, "We found out you're a witch and we're going to try to shame you in death by telling people." I don't know.

Laylla: I got you.

Chelle: I had bent down, and this is where, this is where shit really starts getting nutso. So, I had bent down because at that point I had just recently learned about gravestone rubbings. You know, you put the piece of paper and you rub it and stuff.

Laylla: Yeah, you rub it like with a pencil or with charcoal or something so you get like an impression. Yeah.

Chelle: Right. So, I'm trying to like pull some of the, the grass and the moss off of this so I could read the, the, the lettering very clearly to record it on the camcorder. Because I wanted to record basically the words on this. Because it was kind of neat and it had a pentacle on it. Super cool. Well, I don't know what prompted me to stand up at that particular moment, but I stood up and I went to turn and I tripped. And the, the, the two people that were with me, you know, kind of helped me up, you know, and I was like, "What the fuck?" And as soon as I tripped, the camcorder went dead.

Laylla: Oh. So it like just shut off or like battery died or?

Chelle: It shut off. I had brought three fully charged batteries with me. It shuts off and my first reaction is, "Wow, I probably just plowed through with my first battery." But as I'm trying to kind of get my bearings and stand up and get my footing, I try to open my little flip phone as kind of like a little bit of light because, you know, we're in the forest in the middle of the freaking night. Phone doesn't work. Off. No battery. Nothing. Zip, zero, zero.

Laylla: No.

Chelle: And I'm like, "Oh no, here we go."

Laylla: Oh wow. So none of your electronics are working at this point.

Chelle: So I pull out the, another battery for the camcorder. It's a bust. Nothing. Same one with the third, and I knew these...

Laylla: Brand new full batteries didn't work?

Chelle: And they were not working. And I'm starting to panic now because I'm like, "All right, maybe I, I got more than I bargained for. Okay, there's ghosts here. I want out." You know, like, it's like when you're halfway up a roller coaster and you want to get off, but like you can't.

Laylla: Yeah. Yeah, when your electronics start failing, I start getting nervous.

Chelle: Then I started hearing screaming. But not, not like screaming like by the two people who were with me, but like that faint off in the distance screaming being carried by the wind, like, like that ghost screaming.

Laylla: Like in the same direction where like the footsteps had come from earlier?

Chelle: Well, remember like I said, when, when the clearing opened up for the cemetery, it was circular. So everything sounded like it was coming from every direction.

Laylla: Oh wow. Oh wow. Oh, that makes it even creepier.

Chelle: So, I finally get up without any of these electronics working. You want to know why I fell?

Laylla: Why did you fall?

Chelle: This is so creepy. Like, I wanted to shower just for this one fact.

Laylla: Oh no. Oh my god, Chelle, why did you fall?

Chelle: I fell because this cemetery is so old and unkept and decrepit that the caskets are essentially like growing out of the ground.

Laylla: No way. No, you tripped over a fucking casket?

Chelle: I tripped over the corner of a casket. I tripped...

Laylla: You tripped over the corner of a casket of a witch?

Chelle: Laylla, I was ready to have a heart attack, okay?

Laylla: Oh my goodness. Oh wow.

Chelle: So then, you know, as we kind of start to like look around, because you know how...

Laylla: Oh, you're cursed. You're cursed. You're just cursed. I, I'm surprised you're still here.

Chelle: You know how when you've been in the woods long enough in the dark, you kind of start to acclimate and almost be able to like see a little bit again? Like you get that night vision thing going on.

Laylla: Yeah, you get your whole little night vision thing going on. Yeah.

Chelle: So, so that's kind of where we're at because we've got nothing that works at this point. I'm like, "Okay, I'm tripping over this. You know, everything's not working. Why don't we just, maybe we should..."

Laylla: "Yeah, it's time to go" at that point. "You know, maybe we should go." Casual like, "Let's just, huh, kind of head out."

Chelle: I will admit that it was my idea, but I've had enough of this shit.

Laylla: Yeah.

Chelle: So, we can't get our way out. Can't find our way out. Like I said, this place is a circular place.

Laylla: So now you're lost and you've kind of lost how you came in?

Chelle: Still in the cemetery, but it's almost like the entrance went away. And then...

Laylla: Oh, that thing where you like walk around to where you know the entrances and it's not there.

Chelle: It's not there. Yeah. But you know what? That didn't even really tweak me out that much because the witchy side of me was like, "This is an illusion and I'm being tricked and I will be able to eventually figure my way out of here."

Laylla: So you knew they were fucking with you.

Chelle: Right. So, I think having that background knowledge kept me calm because I was like, "This is, this is witchcraft," you know? "You know, you're speaking my language and I can, I can totally see where this is going and I can get myself out." So I wasn't tweaking at that point.

Laylla: Right.

Chelle: But then every few minutes, the screaming, the screaming. And it sounded like a woman screaming. Like that eerie...

Laylla: Now, was it that like rabbit scream or, you know how sometimes deer will even scream? Was it that?

Chelle: No. No. No. It was definitely a human...

Laylla: Wow.

Chelle: This was not anything alive in, in, in animal...

Laylla: Oh, like an unearthly scream. Even creepier. Okay. Now you're going to tell me it was like all foggy.

Chelle: That's why I said, "Oh yeah, that was a given." It actually was all foggy. But, um, the weird thing is, is like I said, it was one of those screams that you felt was like carried by the wind from the other side.

Laylla: Like some... Oh, carried by, oh wow.

Chelle: Like someone screaming from the other side. Like, I don't know how...

Laylla: Yeah, exactly. I know what you're saying. I loved how you said that.

Chelle: You know, I, I'm spooked at this point. So after a while, I would say all in all, we were probably, um, we thought, and this is where it, it's also a little weird, we thought we had been there for maybe about an hour, hour and a half. We showed up at probably about 10:00 at night was when we got there, and we felt that we had been there about an hour, hour and a half. And there did come a point where, like I suspected, we were able to find our way out, find the path out, and we started heading back to the car.

Laylla: I, I'm just curious. Was there anything that you noticed or remembered that kind of helped release you from that cycle of wandering?

Chelle: No.

Laylla: It just kind of happened?

Chelle: No. No, it didn't just happen. I'm not, I am not done yet, woman.

Laylla: Sorry. Okay, sorry. So you okay, sorry. So you finally, you finally find the entrance like you knew you would.

Chelle: Finally find the entrance. So, you know, this is after tripping over a grave, tripping over a casket. You know, it, it's, this, this casket's 100 years old and, and I'm spooked. I'm tripping over this. You know, I'm waiting to see bones. Between that and everything going dead silent and the wind stopping, the footsteps, the screaming, like I've had it.

Laylla: I would have been done long before that. I mean, I'm really impressed with how well you, you kind of like held out for all of this. That's quite impressive.

Chelle: And like I said, we felt like we were there for like an hour, hour and a half. And part of that was because we could not find our way out in a very small circular area where you should very easily be able to find the path in. Um, because this was like a road, like a dirt road, like the size of a car path. We're not talking like some tiny little walking path in the woods. Like as wide as a car path and it disappeared. So we find the path anyway. As, as we're walking out of the circle, I almost felt like I was walking through a bubble where I almost had to like push myself through. And then I felt like I was being watched. The woods, I, I felt like the woods were watching me.

Laylla: Oh wow. Like once you got through that barrier, you felt like, after that, you felt like you were being watched.

Chelle: Because remember from the beginning, like I said, it was about a quarter mile to a half mile walk down this path, this dirt road. So got the same amount of walk back. That whole walk back, it was that feeling of being watched. And then it was like giggling. Like little girls giggling. Like imagine little girls playing outside and just giggling. And that's, you know, and that's when you start to kind of pick up your pace a little bit.

Laylla: Oh yeah. I'd be thoroughly creeped out at that point.

Chelle: So, we approach the vehicle. All four doors of the vehicle are wide open.

Laylla: What?

Chelle: Now remember at the beginning when I told you...

Laylla: It was locked.

Chelle: All four doors of the vehicle were wide open.

Laylla: No, Chelle. My stoner brain remembers. You told me to remember this and I said I would remember. And I remember. The doors were locked.

Chelle: Not when we got back. They were, they were wide open.

Laylla: No way. No way. Holy shit. Holy shit. What did you do?

Chelle: It gets a little worse.

Laylla: No, no, no, no. That's, there's no worse than that. That's, no. That's no.

Chelle: Now, this was not my vehicle and I was not the driver. So naturally, when you are approaching a car that you're attempting to get into, you're not going to go right for the driver's side. You're going to go for the passenger side because you're not the driver, right? So, so I, you know, and we're like, "Uh..." And you know, it, again, it's near a college town, you know, frats, hazing, blah, blah, blah. So, your first instinct is someone's fucking with you. Okay? You know, "Oh, maybe one of the frat brothers had, got the spare key or something and came and was playing a dirty trick," you know, or, or, that was back in the day where you could still use a coat hanger and unlock a door and, and, you know, just fucking with people.

Laylla: That's right. That's, we, we know that that's the first rule of ghost hunting. As soon as something weird happens, you look for the most likely plausible explanation.

Chelle: So of course we're assuming we were being fucked with.

Laylla: But still, that's so fucked up. I'd be so scared.

Chelle: You would be so scared, but after what you just experienced, you still want nothing more than to get into that car.

Laylla: Hell yeah. I mean, after checking the trunk and the backs and under every seat and the backseat, checking the whole thing.

Chelle: Well, as my friend that was the driver of the vehicle, the owner of the vehicle, approaches the driver's side and the driver's side door that was open, there was a child's hat on the driver's seat.

Laylla: What?

Chelle: That was, that was made out of lace and looked like it was from the 1800s time period.

Laylla: What?

Chelle: Sitting on the fucking driver's seat of the car.

Laylla: What did you just say? No. Wait a minute. Like a bonnet? Like a lacy bonnet?

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: No fucking way. On the car seat.

Chelle: This was something, yes, and this was something that, A, was not in this car prior, first of all.

Laylla: Did you have your daughter yet?

Chelle: Um, my daughter was... She never wore a lacy bonnet as far as I can tell. My daughter might have been a year or two older, but this was definitely, the only way I can describe it is, you know how in the 1800s they had like that hard, starchy cotton?

Laylla: Yeah. Yeah.

Chelle: It was like that with lace.

Laylla: Wow.

Chelle: Like...

Laylla: Oh my gosh. An old-fashioned lacy baby bonnet. Dirty lacy baby bonnet. Oh, that's so freaking creepy.

Chelle: Let me tell you, I have, that, that's probably one of the most scared ever in my life times. I was scared. Like, I was scared shitless because, you know, I'm in the middle of the woods, I'm in Pennsylvania, I'm an hour from home. Like, I don't even know what could happen to me at this point. Like, I'm thinking like axe murderer coming out of the woods. We're all going to die. Like...

Laylla: I would too. I would be so... Did you keep the bonnet or did you throw it out?

Chelle: No, we, we threw it out of the car and jumped in the car and took off. And I will tell you, I don't think I...

Laylla: Probably spinning your tires and throwing dirt the entire way.

Chelle: And the first thing we did on the drive back, I do not condone this as an adult, remember I was in my early 20s, the whole way back, we just had to smoke bowl after bowl after bowl because we were so scared we had to get high.

Laylla: That's the best way to, you know, cleanse the car is the, the cleansing smoke of cannabis will help to get rid of, it'll get rid of any negative spirits.

Chelle: I felt like I had to cleanse my spirit after that. Like, yeah, there was something there that night that I was not mentally prepared to encounter, even though I thought I was. You know, I was trying to be all Billy badass, but when push came to shove and I actually had the experiences, I was scared.

Laylla: It's like the spirits saw these, you know, 20-somethings are like, "Okay, let's see what we can do to fuck with these people." And the footsteps and the screams and the getting lost and the doors, oh my freaking god, Chelle.

Chelle: Well, I also wanted to point out that we are not the only ones. Like I said, if you, if you look up almost haunted places in Pennsylvania, this does make the list. People have heard, they've seen shadow figures lurking inside the cemetery as well as behind trees around in the woods. They've heard screaming echoing around, just like I heard.

Laylla: Oh, interesting. Like a common thing that people have heard.

Chelle: Now, I did some research on other people's experiences, and actually, this is an interesting fact, there are actually people who think that the screaming is a banshee.

Laylla: Oh, a banshee in New York? Why would there be a banshee in New York?

Chelle: If you are not familiar with what a banshee is, it's from Irish folklore and it's basically like women of the fairy mound. A female spirit who heralds the death of a family member, usually by wailing or, or, or shrieking. And that kind, that kind describes like, I call it screaming...

Laylla: If you heard a banshee, that means someone you love is going to die. So did any of you, did any of the three of you, someone that you know die shortly after you went there?

Chelle: Oh lord. Oh jeez.

Laylla: Cuz I mean, literally, if it's a banshee, they herald death.

Chelle: I, you know, like I said, we're talking 25, 27 years ago. I don't think anybody, no one related to me had passed away in that time.

Laylla: So maybe for you guys, it was some sort of spirit, but that's not to say that people haven't heard a banshee in that area. I'm just saying that maybe it wasn't a banshee when you guys were there.

Chelle: Right. Right. Um, so, but, but there have been reports that people think it is a banshee that you hear screaming. I know I heard screaming. Um, I don't recall anyone in my personal circle of life, um, having passed away shortly after that. But I definitely heard the screaming and, and like I said, um, some of these reports of people thinking that it is, is a banshee that's screaming.

Laylla: Yeah. Yeah.

Chelle: And this is not an easy cemetery to reach, like I said. It's in, secluded in the middle of nowhere.

Laylla: You said there's like a quarter-mile hike or something, half-mile hike to get out to it? After, like after you drive through these old roads, then you still have a hike to get to it.

Chelle: Right. And they do say that if you drive your car up too far, too close to the cemetery, um, that your car battery will die. Luckily, we didn't drive that far up that night. But the person who took us there that was familiar with it did say, "We cannot for any reason drive any further. We have to stop here and walk."

Laylla: Well, you guys experienced your electronics dying, so I would put a lot of credence to that. For whatever reason, you know, your cell phone died, your camera died. You know, the electronics definitely had issues.

Chelle: Right. And there, there's actually been people who feel that they have witnessed the banshee. People, uh, locally actually tell, they advise you not to go there. But this is, this is definitely a spooky place.

Laylla: That sounds like a really scary, scary place. Very creepy.

Chelle: And you know, again, because of all the children, the bonnet that was left in the car, um, kind of makes sense. The children laughing as we're walking down the path. You know, it was that vibe that the kids were playing tricks on us by leaving this hat in the car. Like it was a game.

Laylla: Right. Like they wanted to see what they could do to the living people. You know, leave, leave them a memento or something.

Chelle: Like when you have a visitor at your house and the kids want to play with the visitor, kind of thing.

Laylla: Oh, and they want to give you gifts. They always want to give you something of theirs. That's true. Good point. Oh wow. That makes it even creepier.

Chelle: It does.

Laylla: Do you think you offended them by throwing the bonnet out? I don't know. Maybe you should have kept the bonnet.

Chelle: I don't know. I was too...

Laylla: Oh my gosh.

Chelle: Too scared to care.

Laylla: Right. You're like, "I don't care if it's a gift. Take it back. Take it back. I don't want it."

Chelle: But I really, I really did feel like it was coming at me from every different angle. Like, the kids seemed harmless and they just wanted to play. But there was something that I felt was watching us in the woods.

Laylla: So like not everything was harmless. Like maybe the kids were harmless, but maybe there was something else there that wasn't so innocent.

Chelle: Right. Right. There was okay stuff coming at you, but sketchy stuff coming at you from like a, like a vibe, like magical point of view. There was a lot of good and a lot of bad there. But like I said, some of the cemetery was coal miners and some of it was children who died from the plague. So, either way, you got a whole bunch of people who might not realize they're dead.

Laylla: Right. And might be very unhappy with the way that they died.

Chelle: And then think of it at this way, you know, the town gets abandoned, everybody leaves. It's almost like they feel like they were left behind, too.

Laylla: Yeah.

Chelle: Oh no, I'd be pissed.

Laylla: Yeah, cuz now there's nobody there to care for it anymore. There's no one to, to make sure that they're remembered.

Chelle: But there, um, most recently, there was a Paranormal US group that went there. This is this is this is the real deal, man. If you are in Northern Pennsylvania, like this is the real deal. This place is scary. Because you know, if you if you do look it up, you know, you'll you'll see a lot of similar stories from all kinds of folks that have been there. But tonight, I just kind of wanted to focus on my personal story, but I do want to point out that a lot of the things I experienced are similar things that other people have experienced as well. The screaming, the feeling of being watched, hearing small children, those kinds of things. This place is spooky. I definitely give it 10 stars on the spooktacular scale.

Laylla: I'm curious to see to look up some other people's experiences because it sounds like what what you saw and heard was just, I mean, out of this world.

Chelle: Unsettling.

Laylla: Right, very unsettling. It was all very highly unsettling. And it it's just intriguing to me, you know, kind of what happened and what may have caused it. And just that other people kind of experienced similar things, you know, just is very, very interesting and I I can't wait to see what other people have kind of seen, too. And honestly, if anyone out there, any listeners, if you have experienced, if you have any scary stories, send them on in. You know, you've got personal ghost stories, you know, ghoulish crime, send it in. We're curious. I'd like to hear your personal stories. What have you experienced? You know, what are the ghost stories of of your town or or your area?

Chelle: I just told you what me what made me the most scared. Tell me what makes you the most scared.

Laylla: Or have you ever seen a nice ghost? Have you ever had a ghost that was, you know, maybe not as amorous as uh Mr. Hidgepath, but, you know, somebody who said whispered sweet nothings instead of get out. Who knows?

Chelle: Spirits can love you, spirits can want to drive you away.

Laylla: That's true. And in the case of some of them, they they really just want someone to say that they'll be theirs till the end of time, even in the afterlife. Isn't that all we want, someone to just love us always?

Chelle: It really is. And I think that that kind of loops back to some of the paranormal at Fall Brook is that I I do think that, especially with the children, they feel forgotten, like they were abandoned. When people abandoned the town, they abandoned these people. And like it's like their spirit can't get over that, that they were abandoned. It will deteriorate into nothing. And the woods and the trees and and the forest will take it over 100% um eventually, absolutely. This is definitely one of those places getting eaten up by the forest.

Laylla: Well, on that depressing note, I got to check and see if I've got something for next week. Do you know what you're going to talk about next week, my organized partner?

Chelle: Oh my god, you can't even believe how awesome this is going to be.

Laylla: Oh, how awesome is it going to be?

Chelle: Next week, we are going to the world-famous Gettysburg, Pennsylvania. We're keeping it in PA. I have also been to Gettysburg. Um I will give a little uh a couple small tidbit personal experiences I've had at Gettysburg. But as everyone knows from from history class in school, Gettysburg is definitely one of the most haunted spots in America.

Laylla: Oh, I love that. I can't wait to hear about it. There is a ton of history there. And of course, that's a huge site of one of my favorite, very debunkable supernatural things, orb photos. They're everywhere. I love orb photos. I don't want to hear a thing about dust or bugs or any of that shit. Keep it to yourself. I love orb photos.

Chelle: Orb photos are real.

Laylla: Yeah. They're mine. And you can hashtag that. Hashtag orb photos are real. Laylla says so. No, I know that they're not all real, but I still love them. I don't care. So, all right. Well, Gettysburg for you. And next week for me, we're going to be going a little out of this world. Let's we're going to go to Area 51 and we're going to talk about all things aliens.

Chelle: Oh my god, I'm so excited. I can't wait to hear about aliens.

Laylla: Oh yeah, Roswell, New Mexico and a few other places. But yes, all things aliens. I got you next week.

Chelle: So check us out next week. We're going to dive into Gettysburg. We're going to go flying high with Area 51. And we want you to check us out on Instagram at thestonedwitcheshour, on Twitter at stonedwitches, or email us at thestonedwitcheshour@gmail.com.

Laylla: Oh yeah. Thank you so much to all of our listeners across the US, in all the other countries that have tuned in. We appreciate every single one of you. And uh we can't wait to uh get together next week. See you then.

Chelle: See you.
