Laylla: [00:00:00] It's 4:20 AM. 
Hi, and welcome to episode three   of The Stoned Witches Hour with Chelle and 
Laylla. Grab your stash, get some munchies   and maybe turn on a few extra lights. 
Listen in as we smoke lots of ganja,   and tell true-ish tales of restless souls, 
ghoulish crimes, and the dangers of bad cuisine. * bong bubbling* *coughs* Excuse me, Chelle: cough to get off. Laylla: *coughing* Cough to get off. When 
am I not coughing? *coughing* Good gracious. *lighter clicks* Smoke another one 
that'll fix it. *bong bubbling* Chelle: Always does. *bong bubbles* It really 
does. What are you smoking today? Anything good? Laylla: I'm still smoking the same 
homegrown shit. One of the things I   love about growing my own is we have this uh 
kief box that we put, we put, just put pot in,   you know, it has a screen in the bottom 
and then you open the bottom and there's,   uh, a tray like a plate collects 
all the kief that falls through. So sometimes my lovely husband will pack me bongs   and then pack the top of it [00:01:00] 
with just like a ton of kief Chelle: cover it over? Laylla: Yeah cover it over. It's so nice. And then it has a 
dab of a dab in the middle. So   it's very pretty, he's like he gets very 
artistic with his bowls. It's impressive.   Yeah. Right now it's either Bruce 
Banner or uh Blueberry Jack Herer. Or if we have decided to do a little delivery, 
This is I got to flip it around it's Bubba kush. Chelle: Bubble Kush? oooh Laylla: But it's empty *laughs* 
because we smoked it all. Chelle: I actually, I actually got this stuff for 
Christmas. It's like purple, purple something. Laylla: You got pot for Christmas? Chelle: I did. *giggles* All I 
remember about the name is it's purple. I don't know. It's good. I'm 
high. That's all that matters. Laylla: Hey that's all that counts right now.   And to be honest, I have to say Chelle, 
I'm smoking more than I usually do. Chelle: Why? Laylla: Stress, man. Chelle: Not to be the downer of downers,   but I don't see this year being any 
more productive than the last two. Laylla: I [00:02:00] really wanted 
to ring in 2022 and be very hopeful. Well, I did that the last couple 
of years and it hasn't worked.   So I think I'll be pessimistic this 
year and maybe that'll change things. Chelle: Reverse Psychology. Laylla: There you go. We'll 
scare the year or something.   I didn't get any pot for Christmas. Lucky girl. Chelle: Nobody loves ya. I'm teasing Laylla: *laughs* I did get wax for new year's 
so we did get, yeah, it was pretty good. We got that Bubba Kush and Runtz. The other 
one was Runtz nice Little sauce. *bong bubbles* Chelle: Okay. I took some Christmas money I got 
and I made a purchase, the Disney villains Tarot. Laylla: Oooh That's awesome. I want to villains 
Tarot deck. That's amazing. I bet it's gorgeous. Chelle: Very cool. Very cool. Like they,   they dug deep for some of these 
villains and it's super cool. Laylla: Nice. I love that. Chelle: It's awesome. I love it. Laylla: We're going to have 
to do an episode where you go   through your Tarot decks and I just 
drool and fawn over them. *giggles* Chelle: I [00:03:00] probably, you 
know, I'm probably like getting to   the point where I could probably 
contact Guinness and be like, Hey,   as far as personal collections go, 
what are we looking at? *chuckles* *lighter clicks* Well, I happened 
to notice last night that, um, the   Golden Girls Tarot almost tripled in price. Laylla: Oh I bet! I bet. *erxhales* I heard 
a thing and I kind of, I choose to believe it   basically said Betty White sacrificed 
herself. She took 2021 down by the   throat and threw them into the fires Mordor 
together so that we could have a better 2022. Chelle: She was like, who's that 
Christian guy? St. Michael or something? Laylla: Oh, did he slay demons or something? Chelle: Yeah, he like killed the devil, man. Laylla: Oh, right! He did that in the Exorcist! Chelle: Yeah. So Betty White 
is like that Saint Michael guy Laylla: Awww! *exhales* Or, you 
know, she's like Gollum. *giggles* Chelle: yeah. Laylla: Either way. She's a hero Chelle: Slayin demons. Remember when you used to 
have that steam roller that we'd smoke out of? Laylla: Is that the one I 
called Tokin'? J.R Tokin' ? Chelle: Yes. Yes. [00:04:00] Yes. That, 
that thing's probably been long broken. Laylla: It has, sadly. For 
such a shittily made pipe.   It was beautiful. It was such thin glass, 
but it was absolutely gorgeous. Pretty,   pretty pipe. I miss it. Yeah. Well, it looked 
like a big Gandalf pipe. It was like different   shades of blue and white and it kind of curled 
and came down and had like a big fat bottom on it. It was just really neat looking Chelle: J.R Tokin. I remember 
that. That was a good one. Laylla: It was a good one. Chelle: You seem to always kind of keep up with 
the we'll call it latest smoking technology Laylla: *both laugh* only since 
moving here and yeah, I do love dabs Chelle: whereas I kind of still stick to my 
little pipe and I still like mass pack it. Laylla: You have only lived in a 
legal state for less than a year now? Chelle: Um, like 18 months. Laylla: Okay. So you've been in, in a 
legal state. Okay. So you have no excuse,   you *laughs* just, you're 
just an old school stoner. Chelle: I I'm just an old school stoner who   just likes my pipe and I just jam 
it full with a big fat bud. And Laylla: you know, [00:05:00] when it comes 
down to it, I am a flower girl all the way. Give me a bong or a pipe and 
some flower. And. I mean,   I grow my own for that very reason. I 
like to have jars and jars of flower. Chelle: I have progressed, we gotta. 
We got to give credit because I have   progressed because if you recall, what 
was it? Maybe 20 years or so ago, I was   like, oh, we can smoke. Just pack 
it all! I don't do that anymore. So I'm making steps in the right direction. Laylla: Yeah. We are long past the 
days when you would call me a pot snob.   Simply because I wouldn't smoke stems and seeds. Chelle: Yeah. Well, I I've, I've upgraded. I've 
matured to the fact where I no longer smoke stems   and seeds anymore, but when I was like 20, 25 
years old, pack it all in man, light that shit up. Laylla: Well, we've smoked so much crap. I 
think we've done. We've paid our dues. It's   time to smoke the good flowe r. You know, that's 
why, that's why I started growing as I was so   tired of what we were getting in New York was, 
you know, the crappy brick weed and dirt weed,   like you said, it had actual dirt 
in it. [00:06:00] *both laugh* And   you know, that's all well and good, 
but I like the good stuff now. And I think being here in California 
with access to so many different things,   and honestly there was a time just last 
year and the beginning of this year   where I had such bad fibroid pain, that 
if I didn't have dabs and CBD dabs,   I don't think I would have gotten through 
it. I mean, it really helped if nothing else,   I was taking so much ibuprofen, it was making me 
sick; and being able to dab high concentrate THC   along with some high CBD really took 
the pain down to a manageable level. When I was hurting myself with what hospital was 
telling me to take. So yeah, but recreationally to   above and beyond medical reasons. It's awesome. I   like all the different opportunities, 
all the different things available. Chelle: Yeah. And you don't have to like 
call a friend who calls a friend who calls   a friend and wait six hours. You know, you 
just get in the car, you go to the store,   you're done order online done. Laylla: Better yet, I text my [00:07:00] guy   and he shows up at my door between a half an 
hour and two hours later. And I love it. Love it. Chelle: You shoulda seen me the first few times 
I was able to go to like the actual store and   buy it. I'd come out and I'd be like, I 
used my debit card and I have a receipt. I have a receipt for weed. Laylla: Oh my God! The first year 
times I went in and I couldn't help it.   I probably looked like a little kid 
going to like the fair for the first   time. *laughs* And then when I found I could get 
it delivered to my house, How awesome is that? Chelle: They're starting to 
work on that here, delivery. Laylla: I think new York is 
talking about having that as well. And honestly, for patients who need it, it's 
excellent. And for people who are lazy, like me,   it's awesome. I would give a shout out. 
I should of asked them, be like, Hey,   I will shout you out. If you 
give me some, pre-rolls *laughs* just a couple, just a couple. Chelle: I'm just glad you guys, aren't 
all using blow torches. [00:08:00] Yeah. Laylla: We don't have any dabs stuff right now. We just have that little blowtorch anyway, Chelle: delivery guy didn't come? Laylla: **No, we just haven't gotten any, 
you guys are coming out, right? You coming,   coming out are you coming? Unless we're 
all like on fucking lockdown again. Right?   I forget what my fucking point was. My 
husband's plying me with weed and now I forgot Chelle: *laughs * just to just smoke that 
bong and it'll all work. Smoke another one. Laylla: I am going to smoke this 
absolutely gorgeous looking bowl that my   sweetheart just passed me because 
I know you're going to tell me   a true story about an asylum someplace 
that I know well; upstate New York, Chelle: which is why you should go there. Laylla: You know, next time I come out to New 
York, you should come out too. And we should   go visit a couple of these places together because 
there's a bunch of them in that area. Not too far,   we could spend a week and we could go Airbnb 
hopping from haunted place to haunted place. Chelle: That would be [00:09:00] awesome. Laylla: All right, well, 
it's a date for next year. Chelle: So we're going to talk about the 
rolling Hills asylum in Bethany, New York.   It's it's a interesting place kind 
of nestled in rural Western New York.   If you're familiar with New York, it's 
between like the Rochester Buffalo area   and ironically enough, it's near 
Attica, uh, different podcasts Laylla: that's for another time. Chelle: Right? Right. But when I looked it up   on the map, actually I want to say rolling Hills 
is only about maybe a 20 minute drive from Attica.   So it's actually right. Like 
kind of in that neighborhood. Laylla: So it's already nearby 
some interesting energy. Chelle: Now before becoming infamously 
known is the rolling Hills asylum. A lot of these places were called poor houses 
or institutions. It was already documented to   be a hotbed of paranormal activity. This 
place was apparently. Kind of paranormally   before it was considered rolling Hills asylum, 
this was actually, [00:10:00] like I said,   it was a county poor farm and they affectionately 
referred to it as the old country home. How do you affectionately refer 
to an asylum? Like who does that? Laylla: That's ridiculous. The old country 
home. They're like, oh yeah. We send crazy   uncle Joe to the old country home. Is that 
like sending your dog to the farm upstate? Well, it's Chelle: better than say saying I sent uncle 
Joe to the rolling Hills asylum, I guess. Laylla: I suppose if you need a euphemism,   it's the better way to say it 
around the Thanksgiving table. Chelle: Yeah, definitely. Definitely. 
So, you know, the poor houses,   you know, they house orphan children, um, the 
destitute elderly, physically handicapped,   mentally unstable, morally corrupt, really? 
Cause that would be like all of New York state. Laylla: Oh, I'm sure their 
definition of morally corrupt,   probably fluctuated with what worked 
best for them and their middle. Chelle: Right. And they were situated in land. You 
know, part of the draw to Western New York was,   it was very farm-ey back then, still in 
this kind of farm-ey to be honest with you.   So they had [00:11:00] farms there which 
abled body residents were required to work. So, you know, they host, Laylla: So they were keeping 
slave labor alive by putting Chelle: correct Laylla: quote unquote 
undesirables into the reformatory. Chelle: Correct. So if you were an orphan 
or your, if you were mentally unstable   or morally corrupt, you had to work for your,   for your pay and you know, back then 
they were, they were relying on this. This was like a self-sufficient   poor house. You know, they would slaughter 
their own, their own animals. For meat,   they'd grow their own vegetables. They 
would have cows to milk for dairy.   This was a totally self-sufficient city within 
a city, but yeah, like kind of slave laborish. Laylla: Yeah, it kind of sounds like it. I mean, it, it, it sounds like they very 
much took advantage of these people,   especially because I mean, morally corrupt, 
I mean, really that covers so much ground Chelle: they, they actually put an, an article in 
the newspaper in 1828, listen to how nuts this is.   So they put an article in the [00:12:00] newspaper 
and they're like, Hey, you know, they would assist what they called the paupers of the county. Laylla: So poor people paupers, yeah. Chelle: Yeah. And they would give them, 
you know, food, clothing, shelter,   and things of that nature. But when they put 
this article in the newspaper, they said the   following were eligible for assistance. 
You're going to love this list. *laughs* Habitual drunkards lunatics, one who by disease,   grief, or accident lost the reason or 
from old age sickness or weakness. That   was so weak of mind to be incapable of 
managing or governing their own affairs. Laylla: So you could be sad and be sent there. Chelle: Yeah, Laylla: Too sad? Chelle: Yeah. Yeah. If you had no income, if you 
are blind, lame old or disabled or a vagrant. Laylla: You can be like, Hey, 
I can't stand my mother-in-law. Let's put her in the pauper house? Chelle: Yeah, Laylla: She's old. *laugh* Chelle: Just imagine [00:13:00] the types 
of people that were all thrown into this. Laylla: Not that I want to put my mother-in-law 
in the, in the, in the pauper house. I just   want to put that out there right now. 
*Chelle laughs* Hi Leslie. I love you Chelle: Welcome to the poor house. It 
was definitely for folks that were. Criminally minded. And if they couldn't keep 
you in jail, you'd go to one of these types   of places. So just imagine, um, the type 
of, of people going through the doors here. Laylla: All types of people, it sounds like, you 
know, anyone from poor people, crazy people to   people who had too much grief, people who had, who 
went lame or went blind or got a little too old. Chelle: Right. But they were able, 
because they were able to, to have this,   you know, self-sufficient working farm in woods. Cause it was about 200 acres. I mean, 
we're talking a big chunk of property. Laylla: Ah yes and they love the whole work will   make you better, have a good work 
ethic and you'll get healthy. Chelle: They [00:14:00] were able to 
knock it down by making everybody work   for everything. It only costs the 
state a dollar a week per resident. Laylla: That's insane. Chelle: A whole dollar Laylla: a dollar a week per resident, 
because they were able to work them. Chelle: And here's the worst part. The 
residents were referred to as inmates. Laylla: So they really were trapped. Chelle: No matter why they were housed there,   they were considered and they 
were referred to as inmates and Laylla: taking people's rights away. I mean,   they completely strip those people of 
all their rights and of all autonomy. Chelle: Basically the minute 
you walk through the doors,   you were signing your life away and you 
pretty much, it took an act of God to get out. Once you were in, you were kind of in, Laylla: We'd been so much trouble Chelle, 
the amount of weed we smoke? They'd be like,   oh yeah, they're deranged. Let's 
put them in the institution. Chelle: Here's where the sadness kind 
of starts. And this is probably where   some of these hauntings kind of settle in 
to this [00:15:00] place. Now, now you can   imagine obviously with orphans and some elderly 
folks, and you know, in the times, you know,   people didn't live long back then there were 
people that were at this place that had no family. So the county would bury the 
people who had no family.   There are records that indicate that there 
was a cemetery located on the property   and there was at least over 2000 documented 
burials. Guess what? Cemetery, poof,   gone! Documentation poof gone. So instead of 
looking for the cemetery, they just built over it. Laylla: Wait, you're telling me that 
there was a thousand person, cemetery   that they deemed so unimportant that 
the paperwork just poofed away along   with any evidence of the cemetery; 
so that they could build over it.   Is this like what, what was that movie with 
the little girl and, and " they're heeere"? Poltergeist! That sounds 
so [00:16:00] Poltergeist! So they like took away the headstones 
and built over it. It didn't do well   in Poltergeist. I imagine it didn't end well here. Chelle: So, you know, as the, as the, 
the stones from the grit, you know,   the gravestones started crumbling 
away and the grass grew over it Laylla: and they're like, oh, they're 
just paupers and crazy people. And sad old ladies, we're just going 
to like build over it. Who cares? Chelle: But the horrible thing is, you 
know what, you know what one of the   government officials were quoted 
as saying, and like 1872, he said,   no one is around to care for those. 
And they've been long forgotten. Laylla: Oh, that is so sad. Chelle: So actually there is a movement going on. It's been going on for the last 10 or 15 
years. There are folks that are trying to use   what's that ground sonar equipment to actually 
try to find the cemetery, um, and map it out   because you know, everybody 
deserves to be remembered. Laylla: They do! I wonder if that would 
put some of the restless ghosts. I mean,   to rest [00:17:00] some of these spirits that 
are wandering the halls, I wonder if it would,   if it would put some of those poor souls to rest. Chelle: Well, in 2004, the, the 
Genesee county parks and recreations   did end up putting up a little fenced area 
with five headstones. Five headstones?   I'd be angry and pissed off if 
I was forgotten like that, too. Laylla: And, and what are the odds of that, 
they're going to find the records of these. I   mean, that's, that's a thousand people that 
they tried to destroy the records of it. It's gonna be. Uh, painstaking probably. No wonder 
so many restless souls wandering those halls. Chelle: These people, some of these 
people were buried between 1827   and 1888. We're talking a hundred years too late. 
So you got to figure some of these ghosts are just   sad and pissed off. According to the 
current Genesee county historian, um,   the actual cemetery register and the plot 
map [00:18:00] is yet to be discovered. So you have all of these, all of these spirits, 
you know, women, children, men, elderly,   disabled, mentally insane. Nope. You know, 
drunks, these people were treated like shit.   And then they were just dumped and forgotten. Laylla: That's gotta be unnerving for anybody. 
How many ghosts are rumored to be there? Chelle: I have actually found believe it or not. I have found hundreds of stories. Now 
there was a story about a man named Frank   Frank didn't apparently have a last name. 
Uh, not a lot of people had last names. I'm   finding it this place. It was like 
prison. You know, this guy, Frank,   he went in there as a habitual drunk. They kind 
of used it as like a sober house, but you know,   like I said, consider inmates once you're there, 
you don't leave Frank sobered up, got his wits   about him and kind of over time realized, Hey, 
I'm sober, but yet I'm [00:19:00] still here. Frank tried to leave. And he 
was actually chained to a bed.   He was chained to this bed for three weeks 
until he basically knew he couldn't leave. Laylla: Did they let him 
out to go to the bathroom? Chelle: He was chained to a bed for three weeks. Laylla: Ewww! That's so gross. 
I need more pot for this. Chelle: He actually jumped out 
a window and killed himself. So Laylla: How do you jump out a window 
when you're chained to a bed?, Chelle: I, after they let him go, he was 
only chained to the bed for three weeks. Laylla: Oh, okay. So after three weeks, 
they're like, Hey, you don't have to Chelle: learn. Once he learned his lesson,   he needed to get out into the 
fields and earn his keep, you know? Laylla: So that was like punishment, 
chained to a bed and like your own   piss and shit for three weeks. And then they're like, Hey, now 
go work in the fields, asshole. Chelle: Yeah. And so he was like, fuck this 
man. And he killed himself. So you've got   people who had mental had medical experiments 
done on them. You have people who maybe went in   there for a [00:20:00] mild issue or were fine 
to begin with. And the place drove them nuts. A lot of suicides there, a lot of people 
died from during medical experiments.   There were a lot of elderly. If 
food was low in the winter time,   you got fed by age. So there were 
elderly that just died of starvation.   I would imagine those are the folks that are 
hauntin' those halls. The ones that died of   starvation, the ones that committed suicide, 
the ones that died from the medical experiments. Those are the people I believe are haunting 
the halls of the Rolling Hills Asylum. Laylla: And I believe it. Well,   I've got a nice fat pre-roll here. So 
go ahead and tell me a scary story. Chelle: Okay. So one of the tragic 
stories, and this one kind of stuck with me   was, uh, involved a we'll call them an inmate 
um named Roy and Roy suffered from giantism. But, you know, I guess they consider 
giantism of physical deformity, Laylla: like Andre the giant from the [00:21:00] 
princess bride? Like Andre, the giant. Chelle: Yes. Um, he had giantism as well. So, so just 
picture Andre, the giant, you know, some   of those protruding facial features, large hands 
and feet. The guy was like over seven feet tall   and you've got to remember back in the early 18 
hundreds for someone to be almost seven feet tall. Like that was nuts. Now, you know, every 
basketball player on the planet, seven feet tall,   but back then, it wasn't, you know, it wasn't 
a thing. Roy was the son of a prominent banker,   but his physical appearance was an embarrassment 
to his family. So this poor child is born with   giantism, and because he's from a rich, 
influential family, they were embarrassed. So at age 12, age 12, those poor little 
boy was just dropped off at the it,   the rolling Hills asylum. And he was 
left there until he died when he was 62. Laylla: Why are families so cruel? 
That is the meanest thing. They,   how [00:22:00] horrible is that? That poor little boy. Chelle: Because they were an 
influential family with a lot   of money and they had an image to keep 
up with and he didn't fit that image. So he had to go away. That man was there 
from 12 to 62. He was there 50 years   and he loved opera music. And was generally they 
said a nice guy. He's there. He's still there.   There are a lot of people who have seen his shadow   and they know it's him because they say it's 
like this large hulking shadow, that kind of Laylla: How creepy would that be? *exhales * Chelle: Yeah. Who kind of lurks through the building. But 
there was a story that there was a group there of   people. I don't know if it was like an organized 
paranormal investigation, but there were a group   of people that are investigating. They happened 
to be kind to people on the more wealthy side.   And actually Roy went after them and it, it 
seemed like he didn't like people with money. He didn't like [00:23:00] influential people. Laylla: Wait, what do you mean? 
He went after them. Chelle! Chelle: He would touch them. Um,   one lady said she felt like there 
were hands around her throat. Yeah, Laylla: No Chelle! Ghosts don't touch people! Chelle: That there was actually witnesses, who 
said they saw black shadows around her throat. Laylla: So he is an angry, angry ghost. And he's attacking people? Like wealthy people. Chelle: He attacks people who are 
considered influential, wealthy,   prominent. It's almost like he's a friend of the 
poor, hates the rich because obviously there's   been lots of people. Who've done investigations 
in this place and they've never had a problem,   but people who seem to be of a higher wealth 
status get physically attacked by this ghost. Laylla: So he's the asylum Robinhood? 
Is that what you're telling me? Chelle: Apparently, basically he is so hurt that 
he got dumped because he was an embarrassment.   That [00:24:00] it is ingrained in his soul and 
it is ingrained in the walls of that asylum.   Rich people are bad. Rich people are hurtful. 
You're never good enough for rich people. They need to go. Laylla: Oh wow. He should 
also be against, you know,   shitty parents that care more for their 
image than they do for their children. Chelle: But you know, that kind of 
freaked me out because like you said,   ghosts, don't usually touch people. Laylla: Yeah that's like breaking a rule.   I think as soon as ghosts start 
touching you, that's it I'm done Chelle: Get the fuck out! *laughs* Ruuuun! Laylla: It's a sign! You should not 
stay there once they start carving   things on you or touching you. 
No, I'm done. I'm out. That's it. Chelle: But the reason, the reason they kind 
of pinned that on Roy is because, like I said,   when, when the girl thought that there were hands 
around her throat, the people that were with her   saw this big imposing shadow and saw 
the shadow wrapped around her throat. How creepy, what would you do if you 
saw this big shadow of a human walk   up to me and wrap itself around my 
throat? Wouldn't you shit yourself? Laylla: I would absolutely lose my 
mind and [00:25:00] wonder what it   was you had slipped into my bowl, 
but a shadow around her throat? Why? Chelle: Yeah, Laylla: No, no, that's too much. Chelle: And I mean, obviously, you know, there's, 
there's stories of, you know, you go into the   medical room and you hear screams sometimes, 
actually this Roy Guy, when it's kind of peaceful   there, and I say peaceful place is abandoned; 
when all the ghosts are in a peaceful mood. I don't know if you remember. I said Roy 
liked opera music. People have heard,   actually heard opera music echoing down the hall. Laylla: Has anyone ever tried playing opera music 
for him being in there with opera music playing? Chelle: Not that I've ever, uh, that I've 
come across, but I, I would think somebody   would have done that to try to draw them out 
when you try to do that, to draw them out. Laylla: Yeah. I'd try to do that to make him 
happy. I mean, nobody wants a ghost scarf around their neck. Chelle: Let me ask you this. Have you ever been 
a fan of American horror story? The TV show Laylla: I'm passingly [00:26:00] familiar with it. Chelle: American horror story is like this,   this FX TV thing. I've watched a few seasons 
of it. They had a season of lady Gaga. I watched it. Season one they did a 
about a murder house, but season two   of of American horror story was called asylum   and actually FX in American horror story filmed 
season two asylum at the Rolling Hills Asylum. Laylla: No way. Chelle: Yeah. And what they did. And this is 
so creepy. I wish I known about it at the time.   So when they were getting ready to start filming 
season two of American horror story asylum,   they actually had fans get committed, 
quote, unquote, committed overnight   to rolling Hills. And they actually did a 
five-part web series for YouTube. *giggles* Laylla: I have got to check that out. What 
happened to those fans that were there overnight? Did they experience anything? Chelle: Um, actually they [00:27:00] did. And 
they were, a lot of them said that they would   never go back. They'd never wanted to go to 
anything like that again, too freaked out,   but you can actually see some of that YouTube. Laylla: I am absolutely going to check 
that out. I don't know if I would,   Nah yeah, I would definitely stay there. I would want to see what would happen. 
Did they capture anything when they were   taping there on the show? Did they say if they 
caught any, you know, orbs or anything unusual? Chelle: As far as the show goes, they 
just said that a lot of weird things   happened on set. Didn't go into too 
much detail. Didn't really say much. They just said that a lot of weird things happened 
on set. Just interesting. You know, another   interesting fact, but you know, to talk about 
Roy again, people say that Roy was kind of a,   a pure soul, a very kind soul. And they say that 
Roy has kind of like, the keeper of the asylum,   like, you know, kind of keeps all 
of the other like ghosties in check, Laylla: Like the Gatekeeper. He liked. He liked to give everybody. [00:28:00] Chelle: Now this is actually privately 
owned now by a lady named Sharon. I   don't know Sharon's name, last name. 
I probably shouldn't say it if I did,   but a lady named Sharon owns this property. 
Now I don't want to say keeps it the way it is   for paranormal purposes, but kind of keeps 
it the way it is for paranormal purposes. Laylla: And you go there and like rent it out 
and do *exhales*, can you do like tours there? Chelle: Yeah. Oh yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Oh yeah. Laylla: That's freaking cool. I bet there's a lot   of footage of people who have 
done paranormal tours there. Chelle: So, you know, this 
Sharon, the current owner,   she had been walking through shortly 
after she had bought the property. She had come across just, you know, 
random, it was an abandoned building a rat   and the rat made her scream. You know, 
if I saw a rat I'd scream, come on now.. Laylla: I kinda think they're kind 
of cute, but not in an asylum. Chelle: Yeah. Not in an asylum. So she 
sees this rat, she screams and runs away.   So, you know how I said, Roy was kind 
of the [00:29:00] keeper of the gate. The very next day, she went in and found 
the rat dead on the stairs with blood   oozing from its mouth, like his neck had 
been broken and above the rat was a giant,   bloody hand print that looked like 
a giant's hand. And she and Sharon,   the current owner believes that Roy saw the 
rats scare her and saw her get scared and run. So he killed the rat for her. Laylla: No fucking way. He liked this 
lady. So he killed the rat for her and   left a giant hand print? Oh my 
fucking no, no, no, no. That is... Chelle: It was kinda like his way of 
saying, don't worry, Sharon, I got you. Laylla: I guess if I have to, you know, anything,   I'd rather be on the rat killing side of 
Roy than on the throat choking side of Roy.. Chelle: Right. Right. You know, Roy has a big 
presence there even still. Um, there's actually,   I found a lot of stories. I mean, not a lot 
of stories about Roy cause a [00:30:00] lot of   them were kind of, of the same sentiment. But Roy, 
when, when, if, if you look up this asylum rolling   Hills asylum, Roy is a prominent figure in a lot 
of these paranormal experiences people have had. And the reason they know it's Roy is either, 
you know, a seven foot tall shadow or   a bloody hand print. That's bigger 
than the average human's hand print.   So, you know, they can definitely kind 
of pin it on Roy, but yeah, you know,   he'll protect one person. But that'd be pissed 
off at the next. So you got hit Roy on a good day. Laylla: It's intriguing to me that a lot of 
these haunted places have multiple entities   that are similar enough that people actually name 
them, that they know who this entity is. Like,   everybody has experiences with this big hulking 
presence. And so they know that that's Roy,   because it's such a similar experience that 
everyone kind of has across the board and Chelle: Well, Roy is kind of the 
gatekeeper, he's the protector. And also he's got Sharon's back. So. Laylla: He doesn't like [00:31:00] 
wealthy people or people of stature. Chelle: Yeah. But couldn't you see why? I mean, he Laylla: Who can blame him? I can't 
blame the guy. I mean that poor kid,   50 years in an insane asylum, 
just because you looked a little   bit bigger than everybody else when 
nowadays he could be a movie star? Chelle: Or a WWE wrestler? Laylla: Or both. Chelle: So, you know, it's really sad. 
And of course there's a lot of stories of,   of nurses. There was a nurse Emmy, and you 
know, every one of these asylum stories always   has a bad mean nurse involved. And she's 
kinda like, think of like the spiritual   nemesis of Roy. So Roy is going around 
and doing good Emmy, not so much. Emmy was actually known 
for being absolutely cruel. Laylla: So if he's, if he's the Robin hood of 
the asylum, she's the sheriff of Nottingham of the asylum? Chelle: Yeah, basically. Laylla: So they're like 
they're fighting each other. They're like mortal enemies on the other world, Chelle: basically. So, [00:32:00] you know, She 
was described as a power hungry and unkind woman. Now, here we go again. I, you know,   I feel like everything always goes 
back to either Satan or Ouija boards. Laylla: You're telling me this story 
goes back to a Ouija board too? Chelle,   I am sensing a pattern here. Chelle: Well, a little bit, not 
necessarily a Ouija board, but close.   She was feared by the inmates and the staff. 
Now, you know, you're a bitch of a nurse if the staff is a fair afraid of you. And of 
course, as you can imagine, she was even rumored   to have performed Satanic rituals and black magic 
on the residents. Like I said, everything either   has to come back to Satan or Ouija boards. Of 
course rumors are still circulating that nurse.   Emmy still walks the halls and visitors can hear 
her cackle like laugh. I have a cackle like laugh. Laylla: Well, what's wrong 
with a cackle, like laugh? Chelle: I know! Laylla: Feeling like maybe she was 
typecast here. She was the [00:33:00] boss.   She had a cackle, like laugh. They 
said she was kind of a bitch. So Chelle: yeah, she was really not a nice lady. Laylla: Did this nurse Emmy die on the property? Chelle: She did. She was killed by a resident. So she was kind of hacked to death for being a 
bitch. And she's still there roaming the halls   and cracking the whip. So that's, I think why 
Roy is still there. Kind of keeping her in check. Laylla: She probably scares the ghostly 
pants off of the other spirits there. Chelle: Well, there's another 
woman there named Haiti,   and there's a room called Haiti's room 
on the first floor of the east wing. And you can often a lot of 
folks that go there and say,   they can often hear her yelling 
hello, down the hallway. Laylla: That would creep me out. Chelle: And the reason they think it is her 
is because she was a inmate there, a patient,   whatever you want to call it. And she was blind. 
So she didn't know when people were around. And when she was living there. She used 
to yell hello all day and all night to   get the attention of [00:34:00] staff and 
nurses. So even to this day, you can hear,   Hey, be yelling, hello down the hallway, 
trying to get someone's attention. Laylla: We're pretty sure the first time I heard 
that I read like goodbye and I would be gone. Chelle: Yeah. Yeah. You got 
my attention and I'm out. Laylla: I'm not staying to see what else she does. Chelle: Now. Apparently the only one 
that's really kind of really mean   is, is the nurse, unless you have money. 
And then Roy is an issue for you too. Laylla: Does the nurse hurt people to 
like, or does she just torture the ghosts? Chelle: No, she just tortures the 
ghosts and in is just kind of,   she tried, she she'd be the one 
that would try to scare you. You know, the worst part of this place, this, I 
probably wouldn't do this. They have a basement Laylla: Don't go in the, the basement that's 
rule Number one! Don't go in the basement! Chelle: This place has a basement and you 
don't go in the basement. Why would you ever? Laylla: That's where bad things happen! All 
bad things happen [00:35:00] in the basement. Chelle: Well, the basement of rolling Hills   is where the psych ward and 
solitary confinement were. Laylla: Oh, it proof right there. All 
bad things happen in the basement. Chelle: You know, what's still there. There's 
iron brackets protruding out of the cement   walls, which they believe were used 
to shackle the unruly people to. Laylla: Probably the people that are like, 
you know, um, hi, I've sobered up now. And I kind of just want to go home and they're 
like, Nope, fuck you shackled in the basement. Chelle: And this is the sad thing people 
with Alzheimer's epilepsy,   Tourettes Asperger's. If you were 
unruly wife, you were put in this place,   and if you were not towing the line, your ass 
was chained to a wall. Do you know back then? If a man couldn't control his wife, 
he'd say I'm going to lock you up? Laylla: And he probably meant it. Chelle: There was an additional basement room. 
What do you think was in it? Guess what It was? Laylla: Probably an embalming room. A... Chelle: The morgue! Laylla: Oh, I was [00:36:00] right. 
It is an embalming room! Gross. Chelle: Um, apparently there's still an embalming 
table and two large refrigerators still there. Laylla: Why would you leave that there? 
It's probably full of creepy, gross things. Chelle: Because they probably 
abandoned it and then we're like,   fuck it. We're taking this shit with us. Laylla: That stuff is probably 
haunted. Like some of that old stuff   holds energies and shit like the walls, 
like you said, the walls are oppressive. Like I imagined the tables, 
the refrigerator, ew, ew, ew!   It probably holds echoes of all the nasty. Oh no, 
Nope, Nope, Nope, Nope, no. I think I'm done now. Chelle: Um, just wanted to add that, you 
know, there are a lot of theories about   different ghosts and different haunting is 
there, but I think that the key thing with,   with rolling Hills is that a lot of these people 
went in there thinking they could get out. And they thought, you know, maybe it was 
a poor person and they thought, you know,   I can kind of get my life together and 
I can get out and go relive my life. Or   like some of [00:37:00] these children, they 
thought, you know, mommy and daddy died. Or   as Roy, the giant, you know, 
my parents abandoned me here.   I think a lot of these people thought when 
they hit that adult age, okay, I'm 18. I can leave now and go live my 
life. And that wasn't the case.   These people didn't have the option. You 
know, the ones that went in as children,   they didn't have the option to leave when 
they were 18. You know, the people that went   in as his habitual drinkers, they didn't have 
the option to leave. Once they became sober. These are the people that will never leave 
rolling Hills asylum, kind of that attitude.   You're going to force me to stay 
here and never let me leave. Okay.   I'm going to stay here and 
I'm never going to leave. Laylla: I wonder if any of that led to why 
it became abandoned. If there was enough   of a bad energy there that it 
was making it so people were   not getting healthy, you know, 
they, they couldn't in that type of environment. Chelle: Well, like you said, [00:38:00] you 
know, it's like a sponge to negative energy,   you know, so much sadness, so much negativity, 
so much pain, so much hurt, so much cruelty.   You can't scrub that out of things. That's 
like imprinted in the soul of the land. Laylla: That's the shit that kind 
of stays there and lingers and,   and that people can feel even, you know, 
decades later walking into the place. Chelle: And then, you know, aside from 
the people that maybe thought they could   leave and never could. Or thought that someone 
would come back for them and they never did.   You know, maybe some of these wives thought my 
husband will be back and he never came back.   Not only did they have to suffer that fate, 
they were buried and forgotten and desecrated. I mean, the souls of these people 
went through hell. From birth   to the spirit world from birth to 
death, doesn't even encompass it   for some of these people. Some of these 
people were being tortured after death. Laylla: Yeah. By that crazy head nurse lady. Chelle: Well, that crazy head [00:39:00] nurse 
lady is still there, but you know, Roy is on it. Laylla: Roy is going to keep 
everybody safe. Thank you, Roy. Chelle: I'm telling you if I can ever 
get you to go to this place with me,   the first thing we're going 
to do is we're going to walk   in that place and we are going to 
praise Roy. Like it's our job. Okay. Laylla: As long as he doesn't 
think that pot snobs are worthy   of getting strangled, then I think we'll be okay. Chelle: I will learn how to sing opera music just 
to get that guy to have our backs in that place Laylla: Yeah, I've got a phone. My Spotify 
playlist has opera. I'm sure I could find some. Chelle: And if I hear, if 
I hear that old lady Haiti   saying, hello, I'm just going to yell. Hello back. Laylla: Yeah, like it's probably all 
she wants. So she just wants somebody to talk to. Chelle: As with any place 
and especially in asylum,   I think these people just want to be 
heard. They want someone to recognize them   to validate their life because they were not 
validated when they lived there. You know, Laylla: they, they probably just want someone 
to acknowledge what was done to them. [00:40:00] Chelle: Or maybe I'm just really, really 
stoned and taken it a little too deep.. Laylla: What are you smoking tonight anyways? Chelle: So tonight I've kind of 
switched it up a little bit. I've   got this great stuff called white 
wedding. There's like wedding cake. Laylla: I've had wedding 
cake. I love wedding cake. Chelle: There's wedding bomb. I've come to 
learn if it says wedding it's good stuff.   It's a very relaxed, high. It's 
not as brainy. It's more melty. Laylla: Melty is nice. Chelle: And you know, I kind of like to switch 
it up. Sometimes I kind like that zoom brainy,   I'm gonna focus. I'm gonna get a lot of stuff 
done. And other times I just want to melt. Laylla: That always sounds nice. Sometimes, 
you know, you, you don't want to, uh,   you want to just relax and just kind of chill out 
here's some spooky stories and just be, you know, Chelle: What are you smoking tonight Laylla: This evening, I am smoking some 
Blueberry Jack Herer. Ooh. I love both   of those. And [00:41:00] together, this 
is an auto flower, Blueberry jack Herer.   I smoking bowl after bowl, after bowl of it. 
So I'm definitely doing good this evening. Chelle: Let me ask you this. Does it 
have a hint of blueberry taste to it? Laylla: It does. It has a very fruity aroma. It's got a really nice clean taste to it and 
the flowers are a little bit they're darker.   I wouldn't say that it's purple, but the 
stems are kind of like a dark reddish purple   and some of the flower itself has like a 
dark real dark reddish purple tint to it.   But it's very sweet tasting. 
It has a really smooth smoke. I like it a lot. It's also   kind of a. I'd say it's a good mix. It's a good 
mix of, of an up high and kind of a melty high. Chelle: First of all, I want to be one 
of these people who just sits in a room   and smokes a bunch of weed and comes up with 
names because that would be the greatest job,   you know, where do they come 
up with some of these names,   you know, when I hear some of these names, 
you know, like grape diamond, I'm like, Ooh. And then I'm thinking to [00:42:00] myself,   It's going to taste Grapey no, I feel like 
sometimes the only thing that is true to name   are citruses, like super lemon haze lemon. Oh, G 
like, if it says lemon, you're going to have that   lemony, citrus, anything else? They lie. Cotton 
Candy kush don't taste like cotton candy, people. Laylla: I mean, how many times have you 
had a blueberry that tasted different from   another blueberry or we're 
constantly chasing Jack hair   for that perfect Jack hair 
that we had that one time. Chelle: But you're right. Whether 
it's homegrown or store-bought,   it's almost like there's no consistency . Exactly. Laylla: It's a crap shoot 
what you're going to get. And I really don't think that there's any 
kind of consistency being had. People are   trying. I mean, I'm not trying to knock growers 
grow. A lot of the good ones are really trying   very hard. I think it'll just 
get better as time goes on. Chelle: Well, I'd still like to be one of 
those people who just sits in the room,   smokes a bunch of weed and starts naming stuff. Laylla: Yeah. That would be 
the job, wouldn't it? Well,   we just sit in a [00:43:00] room, smoke 
a bunch of weed and tell scary stories? Chelle: What scary story do you have? Laylla: Well, actually   this time, I'm going to tell you another 
California story. I'm going to kind of keep it   close to home. This is a place that I really hope 
to take you guys to when you come and visit me. So when you come and visit in a couple months, we 
are going because it's really not that far away.   They actually have paranormal investigations 
on here. And it is, it's a ship that has been   time magazine listed as one of the top 
10, most haunted places on earth. The Chelle: Oh wow! Laylla: Yeah. Can you believe that?? Chelle: You're pulling me in already. Laylla: There you go. It's 
the RMS Queen mary. It's a   ship that's permanently docked in Long Beach. Now Chelle: Isn't that a British ship? Laylla: It was, it was originally a 
luxury liner back in the late thirties,   early forties. It was a luxury liner 
that took people from New York to Chelle: what is it so haunted? Is it so 
haunted that the Queen don't want it back? Laylla: No Chelle: Nah, that's haunted! 
You Americans Keep it. Laylla: Kind of, well, it has a history, so it 
was a luxury [00:44:00] liner for awhile and it,   it carried people like Bob hope, Elizabeth Taylor,   Walt Disney, Clark Gable, the duke 
and Duchess of Windsor. I mean, Chelle: so like rich celebrity kind of people? Laylla: It carried a lot of like rich celebreties,   but it was considered, it was considered one 
of the biggest luxury liners of its time, Chelle: the Disney cruises of the 1930s Laylla: Kind of maybe that's where Disney 
got his... Got an idea, or I don't know,   but he didn't sail on it. At one point. She 
was a faster and bigger than the Titanic,   which scent had sank decades before 
this even sailed. But it was huge   and beautiful. But this ship, not only had it 
been a luxury liner, but then once world war two   started, it was stripped of everything 
and retrofitted to be a troop transport. And this is where some of the, the ghost stories 
begin. It was actually called the gray ghost. Chelle: Oh, wow. Why, why was it called that? Laylla: It was called the gray ghost because 
it was again, picture the Titanic and then   picture a boat that's even bigger, but kind of 
looks similar to it with the big smoke stacks.   And once it was stripped, [00:45:00] it was 
painted, grey. Everything was painted gray. So Chelle: Like a warship? Laylla: Like exactly like a warship, so gray 
so that it was harder to be seen. And it was   nicknamed the gray ghost, which maybe that was, 
you know, foreshadowing of what would happen.   Because right now there's reportedly 150 to, 
as many as 600 known ghosts on this ship. Chelle: Wow!, wow. That's a lot. Laylla: One of the reasons that it might be 
so haunted is during world war two, it was,   it was a sight of a huge tragedy, a huge crash. 
The Queen Mary was being escorted from New York   state to Glasgow by a smaller ship. The 
HMS Curacao and the HMS Curacao was doing   like a zigzag pattern in front of the Queen 
Mary in order to confuse the enemy gunners. However, they did not account for the 
fact that the Queen Mary was very fast   for being such a large ship. And in the middle 
of one of the zigzag, she crashed right into   the Curacao and split her in two. Of the 430 
people that were on the Curacao only 99 survived. Chelle: So they meant to kind [00:46:00] 
of protect it and keep it shielded. And. It ended up just kind of running them over? Laylla: Exactly. They were trying, the 
Curacao was trying to guide the Queen Mary   to Glasgow. And instead they rammed into this 
ship and hundreds of people died in the freezing   waters with sharks. They say that the Queen 
Mary couldn't stop because of their orders. And they had to call into another ship 
that these people had gone overboard.   And in the meantime, rumor has 
it that some of them were getting   chopped up in the propeller of the 
Queen, Mary, as they plowed through. Chelle: That's horrible. Laylla: It was absolutely horrible. And hours 
later when the other ships were able to get   there and they were only able to pull 99 
people from the water, they say that you   can still hear the screams of those people as 
they died when you're in the bow of the ship. Chelle: That's horrible. Wow. Is that kinda 
how those 99 souls attach themselves to that   particular? Because that was kind of 
what brought them to their demise?. Laylla: That's what they think those nights 
there were 99 people that lived there was almost,   [00:47:00] let's see, 430 minus 99. Yeah. There 
was 330 people ish that died. They do say that   if you're in the hull of the ship, that you can 
hear grinding metal and the screams of, of men. Chelle: But did they keep 
using the ship after that? Laylla: They did continue to use the ship. 
It actually, uh, became quite famous during   world war two for all the missions that it 
performed. It transported prisoners of war.   There were German prisoners of war upfront that 
that died. They do not have a record. Well,   they do have a record, but it's sealed of 
the number of people that died on that ship. They, it was also acted as a hospital during 
world war II. There's so many people that were   wounded and died on that ship that are unrecorded. 
There are 49 recorded deaths on the ship itself. Chelle: So the records are still 
sealed all these years later? Laylla: The military records are still sealed. So 
they, they won't talk about what happened there   at the end of the war, the ship did 
what was called a wives and babies trip. And what that is is like all the overseas 
men who married [00:48:00] women from other   countries and had children with them, they 
needed to get these women and children back   to the states. And so they did three trips 
and carried over 22,000 women and children,   uh, back to the U.S.. Uh, and, 
and again, it's undocumented. How many people during that time died. And 
there is a baby that can be heard crying in   the infirmary and it's rumored that it was a 
baby boy that had been born during one of the   crossings that died shortly after birth. And you 
can still hear him crying in the infirmary area. Chelle: 22,000 wow we had a lot of 
horny servicemen in world war II. Laylla: We really did! They ship. They have pictures of the ship on the, on 
the deck, the front deck of the ship during   one of these crossings. And it's covered 
with diapers on like clothing lines, but Chelle: Oh wow. Laylla: Yeah, the ship was home to even more 
tragedies. I mean, there's some stories of   one of the captains having a stroke in his cabin 
and you can still smell his cigars in that area. The captain's cabin was a 
site of yet another death   where [00:49:00] a second mate, I believe 
he was told by the captain, you know, Hey,   you did a great job. Go to my cabin and you can 
have a shot of gin. Go make yourself a drink.   And so the guy went into the captain's cabin 
and made himself a drink. And shortly thereafter   started feeling very strange and then died three 
days later, after being violently ill, it turned   out he had drank cleaning fluid that had been 
stored in a gin bottle, in the captain's cabin. Chelle: Did he kill him on purpose? Laylla: That's what I'm saying. I don't   know. There's no proof that he did. No 
one says anything about that, but yeah. Chelle: Go drink the gin. 
Wink, wink, nudge, nudge.   So what I, what I find interesting about 
what you've said so far is the fact that   no matter how much tragedy has happened 
with this boat, they keep on using it. Laylla: They kept on using it. That that 
also happened in the forties. And again,   in the forties, a crewman down in the boiler room. 
That's one of the other hotspots as the boiler   room of this ship. And they actually have a door 
13 to the boiler [00:50:00] room. Why would you Chelle: You're asking for trouble with a door 13. Laylla: Hotels know better 
than to have a 13th floor. Why would you have a 13th door in a boiler room? 
In 1942, a crew member named John McKenzie,   this is one of the documented deaths, 
was crushed by door 13. And the rumor is,   is that he was held there as the door shut by his 
crew mates because they didn't like him. Another   crew member was crushed there during a routine 
fire drill in 19 66, 18 year old John Peder. Uh, he was a, a fireman down there. They were 
having a fire drill and as 18 year olds are   want to do as the doors being shut, he and his 
friends decided to play chicken with the door   and he didn't make it. He was crushed in half 
and you can still see him. He's one of the ghosts   that people often see walking down the corridors, 
carrying a wrench, wearing blue or white overalls. And he often leaves greasy 
hand prints on the door. Chelle: Please tell me you see 
his whole body and not just half? Laylla: You do, you do see his whole 
body. They, they [00:51:00] call him half   hatch Harry. So I imagine some 
people occasionally see him Chelle: Seeing a ghost is bad enough, 
but I don't want to see one cut in half. Laylla: You don't want to see half a ghost. No, there's another person 
who've died in engine room 13.   This was a young man named John 
Henry and John Henry had lied Chelle: Stay away from engine room 
13. Do not go near engine room 13! Laylla: Again, as, as superstitious as people   on ships are, I am so surprised that 
they had anything with the number 13,   but this young man was under age and he 
had lied about his age to get in service. And he was Chelle: A lot of people did that back then. Laylla: A lot of people did. Chelle: Yeah, Laylla: It was very patriotic. It was the thing 
to do this unfortunate young man was in engine   room 13 when it caught on fire and he was 
unable to escape and you can still smell   fire and hear his screams. One of the 
doors will actually be hot to the touch. When you can hear poor John Henry Chelle: is most of the paranormal activity then 
kind of. Segregated to that lower level [00:52:00]   of the boat, like the boiler room and all of that. 
Is it kind of just in the, the lower portion? Laylla: Oh no, actually it's all over 
the ship. In, in the pool area, there   was a first class in a second class pool area, 
and those are both extremely haunted as well. There are no reports that I could 
find of documented deaths, but again,   during those mothers and babies trips, 
who knows how many kids passed away,   but there there's a young girl in the pool 
that they called Jackie, her full name was   Jacqueline Torah and she was five or six and 
she drowned in the second class pool area. And it seems like that's a documented death, but 
I couldn't really find any specific information.   People will hear, even though those pools 
are no longer pools, one of them is a,   one of them is a lounge. And I think one 
of them is a theater, but people can still   hear water splashing and hear a little girl 
laughing and she'll respond to questions. And sometimes they'll see a little girl walking 
around with her Teddy bear looking for her mother.   There's another young woman. 
Her name is Sarah. And she,   I believe is also a [00:53:00] documented 
death. She was murdered in the first-class   women's changing rooms and her killer 
was never found. And you can see her wet   footprints walking from what was the pool 
into, what was the women's changing room. There's an eyewitness account from the maintenance 
supervisor. Cathy Love she and a coworker were   there one night in the, in what had been the 
pool area. And they not only heard a little girl   giggling and the sounds of a little girl running 
around, they heard water splashing. And then later   they saw the wet footprints appear going from what 
had been the pool to the women's locker room area, Chelle: Holy shit. Laylla: Right where poor young Sarah had been 
strangled to death and her murderer never found. Chelle: Imagine being a third shift 
maintenance worker and you walk   around and all of a sudden these watery 
footprints are appearing out of nowhere. Laylla: There's another area. The whole, 
I don't know if it's called a floor,   but this is also a hotel. You can go 
and stay there. There's hotel rooms   in what used to be the first, second 
and third class lounge or, um, Chelle: Cabin areas. Laylla: Cabin areas for the passengers.   And they've [00:54:00] all been retrofitted. 
And one of the rooms room B340 is reported to   be the most haunted and was actually closed 
down because it was so haunted at one point. Chelle: Why what happened in 340? Laylla: Well, at one time room B340 was 
actually three separate rooms. The bead   deck once contained third class cabins room B340 
was originally three third-class state rooms. I believe it was B222, B224 and B226. 
There was a young woman named Dana   that was staying there with her family. One 
night, poor Dana awoke to find her mother.   And her younger sister strangled to 
death in their bed. And she ran to the Chelle: Oh shit. Laylla: She ran to the bathroom only to find 
her father there who had committed the crime,   who shot her to death in the bathroom. The man was discovered very shortly afterwards, 
they found his crimes and they discovered that   he had killed his family. And they took 
him out of the room and locked him up in   the [00:55:00] second suite the family had right 
next door. While he was locked in there, they put   a guard on the room and the guard reported 
that the man shortly after being locked in,   started screaming and crying and wanting to be 
left out and saying, they're trying to kill me. They're trying to kill me. And of course the guard 
just thought he was being an asshole and wanting   to get out because obviously there's no one else 
in this little, teeny, tiny third class room.   Gradually the man was quiet. And the guard was 
happy that he had finally fallen asleep. The next   morning when they came to dock and the police got 
on, they opened the door to the room to find that   the man had been dismembered and disemboweled, 
and there was blood all over the room. Chelle: Wait, who got in the room? Laylla: No one else had gotten in the room Chelle: And it wasn't the guard? Laylla: It was not the guard as far as they could 
tell. No one else got there. And so Dana, her   ghost still roams around in the pool room and on 
those rooms. Now they very shortly after cleaning   up that room and setting sail again, reports 
of paranormal activity, such as blankets being   pulled off of people, lights [00:56:00] turning on 
and off water turning on and off started happening   immediately. So much so that they were having 
trouble getting people to stay in those rooms. So they decided Chelle: So Dana is pretty 
active. Dana is an active ghost. Laylla: Well, there, they think 
that there's more ghosts there   as well. So they, they turned that 
into one suite and people were staying   in it up until the eighties, when they 
finally decided that that was too much,   they couldn't handle it anymore. There 
were too many maids wouldn't go in there. So they boarded it up and they stopped 
renting the room out until 2018. When that Chelle: Let's go! Laylla: You can, you can rent it out. Now Chelle: let's go. Laylla: It was, I don't know 
what it is now, but it was $500.   You can rent it out. The room has, you can 
find it. There's YouTube videos where people   have stayed there. They have like the bloody Mary 
incantation next to the mirror in the bathroom. There's quotes from people on the walls 
of different experiences that they've had.   They have a whole chest of crystal ball,   a Ouija board, and a ghost hunting equipment that 
comes with the room that you [00:57:00] can use, Chelle: Ouija board? Why? Okay. You know, 
everything goes back to Ouija boards. Laylla: Everything goes back to Ouija boards. Honestly, though, I think though, if we 
were any, any of the rooms on the B deck   are...are Hotbeds of paranormal activity. 
There's so many things that happen there   and everywhere on this ship, there's actually 
photographic evidence of some of the ghosts.,   one of them is called the white lady that 
people often report seeing in one of the   ballrooms. They'll see a young woman dressed 
all in white dancing by herself in the corner.   Sometimes she'll go over to towards a piano, but 
she always disappears as you get closer to her. Chelle: What I find interesting about, about 
a lot of these places, whether it's an asylum   or a ship or a house, doesn't it appear 
though that a lot of these places. There may be certain spots that are more 
active than others. But if a house is haunted,   the whole house is haunted. If a ship 
is haunted, the whole ship is haunted.   Like I'd go and stay on the A deck. Knowing that 
I'd probably have just as much of a paranormal   experiences if I was on the B deck. Well, 
unless I was in the murder suite.[00:58:00] Laylla: Oh, you're not wrong. I mean, 
there are ghosts everywhere, even the old,   what did you call the old kitchen on, uh, 
the galley or was it a galley and a shift?   So in the galley was even the site of 
a brutal murder. And this time again,   during world war II, they had picked up a 
crew. They said it was Australian soldiers,   but I don't know, maybe they were just 
trying to blame it on the Australians. But supposedly one of the cooks, there was 
a very abusive man, not a very good cook   at all. These soldiers who were helping him 
out, decided that they had had enough of his   abuse and his shitty food. And so they shoved 
him into his own oven and burned him alive. Chelle: Oh, that's all Hansel and Gretel, man. Laylla: Yeah. So you can still hear his 
screams and smell burning flesh in the galley. Chelle: And you got to figure, even because 
of the long journeys, these types of ships   made and in the timeframe they took them. 
You're also going to have the people who   just died of natural causes and were just caught 
between worlds because you know how ghosts are. If they die unexpectedly, they're 
all confused and shit and stay. Laylla: There are [00:59:00] 49 documented 
deaths that happened on the ship. And anytime,   anything like that happens, 
it's bound to leave an imprint.   But then there's all the hundreds of deaths 
that happened from the Curacao accident   and other deaths that had to have happened 
during its time as a warship, when it was, Chelle: There's gotta be undocumented 
deaths between when it was carrying   the women and the children to the war time 
stuff, there's gotta be undocumented deaths Laylla: Everyone that goes, there has experiences. 
It's interesting to see some of the different   investigations people have done because you get 
the auditory sensation. I'm not as familiar with   some of the ghost hunting paraphernalia as 
you might be, but they use things that sent Chelle: An EMF reader. Laylla: Yes. They use those and, and things 
that can sense changes in temperature and move Chelle: Heat sensing. Yep. Yep. Laylla: So I guess some of that comes with the one   one room, but who's to say 
we couldn't bring our own, Chelle: I don't know. I'm one of those 
people like the equipment, I guess is cool,   but first of all, a lot of ghost experiences 
are gonna make your equipment shut off.   I don't want to [01:00:00] see it on a screen. I 
want my hair standing up on the back of my neck. I want to smell that fire. I want to hear 
that poolwater slush and and hear that   giggle down the hall and know when I'm 
the only one there. I want to feel it.   I want to experience it. I don't 
want to just see it on a screen. Laylla: You were talking about the long 
hallways and the creepy looking place. I mean,   just going there, the whole 
presence of the place feels   very scary and very haunted and very 
heavy with the weight of history. Chelle: So, if you can stay 
there, are there staff that are   on this boat? 24 7? And if so, 
are they experiencing things? Laylla: There is a caretaker 
that stays there right now   during COVID he's the only one that stays there. 
He stays there five days a week by himself. And Chelle: That's some freaky shit. Laylla: He has a cute little dog,   you know, he says, he says, it's haunted 
and he'll take, he takes people through   the rooms and can describe what's what's 
happened. Even the ship's log before,   you know, [01:01:00] before it became a stationary 
place, the ships log detailed haunted places. Chelle: How long has it been stationary? When did   it get technically like taken out 
of use or, or however they call it? Laylla: All right. So after world war II, it went 
back to being a luxury liner again, but it, it, it   didn't last, it stopped making money after a 
while because air travel became so much better.   And other ocean liners at that point 
had so much better accommodations. I mean, this one was just 
too old and too out of touch. Chelle: Well, things were changing at that 
point with technology and transportation.   So why would it, why would you hop 
on a boat and take two weeks to get   from england to New York when you could 
get on a plane and do it at that point, Laylla: right? Plus plane travel now is so much 
cheaper and so much more accessible to people. So that's absolutely what they did. They 
decided to sell it. And the city of Long   Beach California bought it for 3.4, 5 
million in 1967, October 31st, 1967. Chelle: If that ain't an omen. Laylla: That's when she [01:02:00] departed on 
her final cruise and arrived in Long Beach on   December 9th, 1967. And that's where 
it is currently permanently docked. Chelle: And the city of Long Beach owns it? Laylla: Well, actually it's changed 
hands quite a few times and was even   owned at one point by Disney. 
And I do have to point that out, Chelle: He went on the boat and then he owned it! Laylla: Ah well, kind of. In 
the seventies and eighties,   it looks like what had happened is someone Disney 
related bought it and they were going to do,   I think it was port Disney, maritime Disney. I'm not positive. But it's rumored that, 
that room B340 was rigged up kind of like   the haunted mansion. I mean, the, the ghost 
stories on the rumors had already been there,   but it's rumored that they had rigged 
that room up to actually be fake content,   to kind of scare people even after it 
was, you know, they kind of scrapped   that idea and sold the ship and took all 
of those fake ghost [01:03:00] props down. People's fuzzy memories of being there as children   may have kind of embellished some of 
these ghost stories about room B340. Chelle: That kind of reminds me of, of my 
story on Rolling Hills Asylum. People go there.   And if they go there with good intentions, 
they have one experience. And if you go there   to almost mock it or monopolize 
off of it, it doesn't turn out. Laylla: I'm sure there's people that go there have 
absolutely zero experience and just don't talk   about it. But everyone that goes there hears weird 
noises. They hear screams, they hear giggling,   they hear footsteps. They feel someone, the whole 
atmosphere, the whole place was scared, everyone, Chelle: but yet they just kept using it. Laylla: They kept going and, and 
people keep going. They keep,   but they keep having these experiences. That's 
why it's one of the top 10, most haunted places. Chelle: Let me ask you this. Have you had the 
opportunity to actually go there yourself? Laylla: Not yet. I'm going to wait and 
save [01:04:00] it for us to go together. Chelle: We're going, Laylla: We can go. And we're going to find some 
ghosts. We're going to catch some ghosts and   we're going to show everybody what we find. 
We'll have to count how many ghosts we get.   Like psychics have been there and have talked, 
like I said, 150 up to as many as 600 ghosts. Chelle: You want me to sit there 
and connect with 600 ghosts? I can just be there for like two 
hours. Right. And that's what Laylla: we're going to stay. We 
could, we could go on a ghost tour   or we could maybe book a room and stay in a room. Chelle: Let me tell you. Oh yeah, I'm down 
for booking a room. I just want that ghostly experience. I love it. Laylla: Then let's try. Hopefully there'll 
be open and we can book a room on the B deck. Chelle: Excellent. I wonder if any of these 
spirits smoke weed, do you think they do? Laylla: They've got to, I mean, some of 
them were sailors, right? They smoke weed. Chelle: George Washington 
smoked weed, smoke peace pipe. Laylla: As American as smoking pot. Chelle: Exactly. Exactly. Hold on. Bong puff time. Laylla: I'm [01:05:00] way ahead of you. Chelle: I mean, this sounds 
like Titanic type stuff. Like I am intrigued. I'm not even   scared. I am like excited to go here. 
As a matter of fact, I want to go, Laylla: oh, I want to go. I think 
there's so many ghosts. One of them,   they call the growling ghost and he's 
one of the more popular, I guess, ghosts,   everybody hasn't experienced with the 
growling ghost. Supposedly there's a,   a stair, a staircase near the first, 
what was the first class swimming pool. And that's kind of where he 
stays. And he growls at people   and there's recordings you can find online of him,   of the growling ghost. Unlike Henry, the young 
boy who died in a fire in the engine room, Henry   actually will respond to questions about beer. 
Apparently young under age, Henry liked beer Chelle: beer? Laylla: A lot of these ghosts will 
respond if you ask them questions. And like you ask a question and later 
you play it back and you can hear Chelle: EVP. I don't remember what the 
acronym stands [01:06:00] for, but it's EVP. Laylla: I think EVP stands for electronic voice 
phenomenon. I love that shit. They have some sort   of machine and it seems like bullshit to me, 
but they have some sort of machine that like Chelle: Translates ghost talk. Laylla: And yeah. And says it out 
loud. I don't know if that's just   programmed to have words come out of it 
randomly, or if that's really a thing? Chelle: You know, I don't trust 
technology when it comes to ghosts.   Yeah. I mean, I could go into, I could 
do a whole podcast on why I don't   trust technology with ghosts. I'd rather that 
psychic, knowing that instant feeling, I guess. That personal experience, because 
technology is whack and you can't   trust it. You can't trust technology and you 
can rig technology to kind of alter results. Laylla: Well, you can have really charismatic 
people who sound like they know what they're   talking and they're just really spewing 
bullshit. So I think I kind of like both. I like, I do, [01:07:00] like when I can see 
that the temperature has changed in this spot,   or there was motion here where 
there should be no motion   or I'll admit I'm a sucker 
for orb photos. I total, so Chelle: I do like orb photos. Laylla: I know there's explanations for 
them. I don't want to hear it. I like them.   And I also do kind of like the whole 
EVP voice recording in the static thing. That's interesting to me. I don't 
know if that's fully like a legit. Chelle: I look at it. I try to look at those 
things as, as more of a. Affirmation of what I'm   feeling. I feel something here, there's something 
here and now I have something to validate what   I'm feeling more validation than having it be 
like, well, it says that there's something here,   so there must be, if I feel it and then 
see it there, that's validating for me. Laylla: I think that's why it's important 
to me to kind of have both because,   you know, I do, I do very much trust my intuition, 
[01:08:00] intuition, other worldly senses.   You know, when you walk into a space 
and the hair on your arm stands up,   or, you know, you immediately 
can feel that presence.   And when everyone's feeling the same thing, 
you know, you kind of get that validation. And so when you're, when you're a little 
meter goes off at the same time that your   intuition goes off, like you said, Chelle: That was validating for sure. Laylla: Very validating. It's like, 
you know, I don't know what this is,   but something just happened and 
it's kind of freaking me out. Chelle: Now, I have used an EVP and 
I've also used the heat sensor machine. I kind of liked it when I would get a sense. 
I'd get a feeling, I'd see something. And then   it would pop up on the EVP or the one time I did 
see a full body, uh, figure on the heat sensor.   I felt like I saw it first. I walked into 
a room and felt like I was being stared at   and used the heat sensor thing and actually saw   an outline when there was [01:09:00] nobody there 
to the naked eye that validated that for me. But if I didn't have that heat sensor, I still 
would have walked out of there saying, yeah,   there was someone there and I saw them. 
It just validated what I already knew. Laylla: But you didn't need it. It's just 
nice to have both of those pieces of evidence, Chelle: but I feel like I had the same exact 
experience. I would have the same experience,   even if I didn't have the equipment, the equipment 
just validated what I was already feeling. Laylla: That's what happens over and over 
again on the Queen mary is they've done so   many investigations, sensitives and psychics 
have gone there. They've done seances. And   you know, we do boards and paranormal 
investigations and people have just gone   there to visit and have fun and had a paranormal 
experience for the first time in their life. Chelle: You know, since we 
we've had, uh, a bunch of   our podcast stories so far, somehow 
some way tie back to a Ouija board. I don't think the Queen Mary is a place you want 
to be taking a Ouija board. [01:10:00] Okay.   Every thing, every Wiccan and pagan, and and 
witchy witchcraft, sense, sense in me says,   do not ever board that ship with Ouija board. Laylla: It sounds like that ship is 
already a hotbed of activity and that's,   you just have to walk through it in order to feel 
it. You don't need to be antagonizing anything or   calling anything it's already there. You 
just have to walk into these places and you   can hear it and feel it. And ghosts here are so 
prolific that you don't need any extra anything. Chelle: Well, let me tell 
you, my friend, when I am   in sunny, California in about two, two and a 
half months, we are going to the Queen. Mary. Laylla: Yes. And we probably can't smoke 
there. So I'm going to bring a lot of edibles.   I mean it is California, but it's still a 
hotel. So it's going to have to be like,   eat this brownie. And in an hour, we're 
going to, we're going to go tour the ship. Chelle: I am intrigued. Laylla: We're going, we're gonna 
stay. We'll stay overnight. And we [01:11:00] will see 
if we can find some spirits. Chelle: Absolutely. So the Queen 
Mary Newport beach, California on Laylla: Long Beach. Chelle: Beach, Long beach. Laylla: Long Beach Queen Mary in Long Beach. Yup. Chelle: I'll remember that 
Snoop dog sang about Long Beach Laylla: Yeah, so did uh Sublime. And then there's   also the Long Beach Dub All 
Stars. Who doesn't love them. That's all for episode three of 
The Stoned Witches Hour thank you   so much for hanging out with us. 
And if you enjoyed this episode,   please give us a follow and maybe a review. 
Thanks again. And we'll see you next week   as I take you inside the haunted hotel that Jim 
Carrey refuses to go back to, or even talk about.   And Chelle will explore the mysterious legend of 
sleepy hollow. See you on Wednesday at 4:20 AM until next time stay Stoney. I'm 
not using that either. Hahahahahaha Chelle: Stay stoney? Laylla: I don't know? We need a catch 
phrase. Come on! [01:12:00] Hahahahahaha Chelle: stay high bitches. Laylla: Stay high bitches. It's 
better than stay Stoney.*laughs*