Chelle: This is what? Which episode is this show? Uh eight, nine? Nine, eight, nine? I don't know. Nine, eight.

Laylla: No, episode nine, Crater Lake. Okay, no, it's episode nine. Hey, welcome to episode nine of The Stoned Witches Hour.

Chelle: I'm Chelle and I represent the Where do I represent? The East Coast.

Laylla: That's right. What How much have you had to smoke tonight, Shell?

Chelle: Enough that I forgot where I am. I'm like, well

Laylla: It's so snowy you're just wishing you weren't on the East Coast. I wish I was on the West Coast with Laylla because it's so nice and warm over there.

Chelle: Oh, I'm so jealous. But yeah, no, I am actually Chelle here on the East Coast even if I don't realize it.

Laylla: And I'm Laylla representing the western half of the US and all the spooky paranormal things that we get up to over here on the best coast.

Chelle: You only say that because it's warm. Excellent.

Laylla: It is more hot. So today is Super Bowl Sunday.

Chelle: You know.

Laylla: Whatever. I know. I also have definitely

Chelle: I will say this though.

Laylla: What?

Chelle: Have you heard about the halftime show yet?

Laylla: Snoop. It's Snoop.

Chelle: No, it's it's it's Snoop, Dr. Dre, and Eminem.

Laylla: Snoop, Dre, and Eminem at at the halftime show. I am so happy. It That's so exciting. We'll definitely be watching. I wanted to get tickets. I'm like, hey, it's in LA. Let's go get tickets.

Chelle: Like 2 grand.

Laylla: No, $5,000. The cheapest tickets were $5,000.

Chelle: I love the fact that you were willing to go get Super Bowl tickets just to go see Dr. Dre and Eminem and Snoop Dogg and not even football. I love that. I love that. And not even the football. Well, you can get legal recreational weed for the first time right outside the Super Bowl. Pack yourself a Super Bowl and then go in and watch and watch the football game. How great is that? And the halftime show is going to be epic.

Laylla: I really thought you were going to say that they were starting to sell uh like pre-rolls and joints at the concession inside.

Chelle: No. The uh the NFL says no to marijuana. They say bad, bad, bad and so it you can't advertise, you can't sell it, nothing. You can have all the beer you want.

Laylla: You know what?

Chelle: What?

Laylla: That must be why I've never liked football.

Chelle: There you go, Shell. Yeah, if they're not if they're not pro pot, we're not there. I've always liked the Washington football team since 1982 when they won the Super Bowl. My brother and I and our family bet on Super Bowl teams and my brother and I were the only two that bet on the Washington football team and they won. So I've kind of been a fan of theirs ever since. I know it's dumb, but

Laylla: For for as long as we've been friends, I actually think you don't know this. Fun fact, my daughter is a huge huge Washington fan.

Chelle: That's fantastic.

Laylla: I actually the other day when they came out with the brand new whatever name

Chelle: Commanders. They're the Commanders.

Laylla: I sent her something I saw online cuz I was like, well, she's the only person I know who would give a shit about this.

Chelle: C, C, C, C. I care, but only that much, only a little bit. Oh, I also ordered seeds and I wanted to tell you one of the seeds I ordered is strawberry banana.

Laylla: Is it really?

Chelle: So I will be Yes, I will be growing strawberry banana that strain just for you, Shell.

Laylla: I had no tea left and I had no weed left, so we had to actually go out, which was a tad bit harrowing. You know I don't like snow

Chelle: No, or the cold, none of that.

Laylla: No, but yeah, being in a vehicle on Sawyer Road, I don't like, but I also

Chelle: We need drone pot delivery. That's what we need.

Laylla: So this straw banana new new tin, this one we're going at 32.94 THC.

Chelle: Nice, nice. And I will be growing that shortly.

Laylla: And it's it's it smells good, it's tasty, it's beautiful.

Chelle: You know it was solely on your um your recommendation and then your stone texts to me later. On those recommendations, I'm like, you know, if Chelle, my longtime stoner friend, is liking it this much, I am growing that bitch. Yeah, so I'm growing it. I got some. We're going to call it Shell the Shell special.

Laylla: I I think that this is definitely a good one for for you to give a give a good go to. You're going to buy seeds anyway, so why not try this one because

Chelle: Nice, nice.

Laylla: It it it's definitely a good What is that strain? Cultivar.

Chelle: It's a nice cultivar. Yeah.

Laylla: A nice cultivar. I'm trying it. I'm learning the words, just not necessarily the proper context of them yet. But we're getting there though.

Chelle: Yes, yes, you are. Yes, you are. Man, but you know what you like. You've always been a You've always had a good nose for weed.

Laylla: You know, I don't Is that a good strain?

Chelle: What's a weed sommelier? Is that something that people do? Like what would you call that? Like a weed sommelier. You know what I'm talking about, right? Like the person who recommends wine.

Laylla: Like a connoisseur. A cannabis connoisseur.

Chelle: Oh, I like that title. I could do that. I am definitely a cannabis connoisseur.

Laylla: A cannabis connoisseur.

Chelle: Mhm.

Laylla: Um I'd never be a good bartender because I would be licking my fingers and like I just I wouldn't be good. They would be like, stop. Yeah, they would

Chelle: They'd ask for what's good and you'd be like, oh, I had this the other night and it was fantastic. Oh, and I had this one too and it's really great head high. Lick my fingers. Lick my fingers. See how great it is.

Laylla: It's okay. So my mother-in-law has a brand new boyfriend.

Chelle: It's always good when mother-in-laws get new boyfriends.

Laylla: I totally agree. And he's wonderful. Oh my gosh, he is just an absolute sweetheart. I'm so happy for her. Spoils the heck out of her, which drives her crazy, right? So they're in Vegas and they're but she comes up to me. Now she's normally not a pot smoker, occasionally a hit now and then, but she comes up. She goes, Laylla, Laylla, do you have any rolling papers? And I'm like, whoa. Hey, yes, I do, mother-in-law. I do have rolling papers. And I go, what kind do you want? And I whip out like four different kinds of rolling papers. And she's like, no, no, no.

Chelle: Cuz only you would have four different kinds.

Laylla: She's like, no, no, no. I don't want rolling papers. Will you roll me a joint? And I'm like, what? You want to take a joint to Vegas? Okay, okay. All right, all right, yeah, fine. Yeah, here you go. Here's your nice joint for Vegas. Have a good trip.

Chelle: How about we roll you two?

Laylla: Right?

Chelle: That's what I said. I said the exact same thing. I was like, yeah, you want two? She was like, no, no, what I'll do. Just one.

Laylla: You know, you know, see, what a lot of people out here have been using, maybe this is an East Coast thing, not rolling so much anymore, but buying the cones

Chelle: Mhm.

Laylla: and and and packing the cones.

Chelle: I liked that, but I ran out of cones. And I have so many papers cuz I get them for free a lot of times with our delivery. But yeah, I love the cones. Do you pack yours?

Laylla: I don't pack I actually just buy pre-rolls already ready to just light that buddy up. But I do like I think they burn better with that cone shape as opposed to that You know that pregnant joint that is like fallen apart and you're like biting weed off of it as you're taking a hit. I I just think the cone is a better smell.

Chelle: I like that too. And uh Oh, check out my joint holder. Do you like this?

Laylla: I love that. I actually have a mint holder that's the same thing.

Chelle: Okay, so it started its life as a mint holder with little the little planchette the little planchette shaped mints. Same thing? Is that what you have too? No way.

Laylla: What?

Chelle: Yes, show me.

Laylla: But I have got

Chelle: So we both have a tin with a Ouija board on the top of it and it says mystifying mints.

Laylla: But I have not eaten the planchette.

Chelle: Me either. Oh lord.

Laylla: I have the same thing, but I use the tin to keep my joints in. I just can't bring myself to eat the planchettes. I feel like

Chelle: I have not even opened it.

Laylla: Summon some damn demon in my belly.

Chelle: Yep, same thing, same thing.

Laylla: That's too funny.

Chelle: Yeah, so I will admit when I made that one logo, I was looking at this and I am like, you know, that looks really cool. I'm going to make a logo for The Stoned Witches Hour just like my mystifying mints Ouija board tin.

Laylla: So what you're saying is you are you are really high looking at your joint tin, zoning out.

Chelle: Zoning out on Canva. Like this is so cool. So yeah, if you want to check it out, it's the background logo on our YouTube episode zero. The Stoned Witches Hour. Yeah, check That's my stoned uh artwork inspired by mystifying mints. But you know you know how you resolve all of that finding the right papers?

Laylla: Get my cheap ass and go get some cones. That's what you're saying.

Chelle: No, you actually Like I've said in many episodes, glass pipe. All you need in your life is a glass pipe. You can't go wrong with a glass pipe.

Laylla: I love a glass pipe. I have a shit ton of glass pipes. I have so many glass pipes because I tend to have them get all dirty and then I'm like, oh, this is too clogged. I need to buy a new glass pipe. Story of my life. I had one and and it's missing and I'm so sad. My two favorite pipes, one I broke. Oh my gosh, I found this glass blower. I have to see if I can find his name and stick it in here later. But he's amazing. Uh do you remember Have you ever seen my woody pipe, the one that looked like a wood branch?

Chelle: Yes, yes.

Laylla: I love that pipe. I broke it. We were going to La Jolla for the day to go snorkeling and packing everything up and I had my bag with everything in it and it fell out and I fucking broke it. And then this other one, my big fat goddess pipe, and now it's missing. I hate that. So sad.

Chelle: It's missing? All that all that means all that means is some fairy took it and it is going to reappear and it might even reappear half full of weed.

Laylla: You're probably right. When they're done with it, it will come back. I'm pretty sure.

Chelle: Exactly.

Laylla: I would not be surprised. It's a very, very pretty pipe. But do you have any predictions for the Super Bowl? Like who's going to win?

Chelle: I don't know who's in it. That's how much I don't pay attention to football other than obviously LA cuz you're excited, but the other team, I don't know.

Laylla: Right. It's the LA Rams and the and the Cincinnati Bengals.

Chelle: What are they called?

Laylla: Bengals.

Chelle: The Bengals. Yeah.

Laylla: What's That's Is that a cat?

Chelle: Yeah, it's a tiger.

Laylla: Okay.

Chelle: They're orange and black. That suits you. That's good.

Laylla: Okay. Yeah. Okay, so I'll go with Ohio.

Chelle: All right, all right. What do you think they're going to win by?

Laylla: Whatever a touchdown is, I'll say Ohio by one touchdown win. Now I just would like to give a little little note to all of our listeners here. Please don't think that I'm a horrible person cuz I know nothing about football. If we were talking about hockey, I would be honest. In hockey, every goal is one point. One goal, one point. One goal, one point.

Chelle: Well, hockey makes sense.

Laylla: Right. That's why I love hockey.

Chelle: Donate blood, fight Bonvie.

Laylla: Go Rangers. Do not tell Do not tell my my my other half fat.

Chelle: Ooh, uh-oh, is there a hockey rivalry in the family?

Laylla: There there is.

Chelle: That's tough. A mixed family like that can be difficult, Shell.

Laylla: Yeah, and and and it's pretty rough cuz it's the Boston Bruins and the New York Rangers and you know

Chelle: Oh no.

Laylla: I am steadfast. Go Rangers, go. Let's do this here.

Chelle: Oh yeah. I'm on your side. You know that, right?

Laylla: Yep. But you know what?

Chelle: And I love the man, love the man, but hockey's hockey.

Laylla: You mentioned Dennis Bonvie, great hockey player. Used to love him in the '90s. He was in the New York Farm team in the AHL team for New York. Do you want to know what Dennis Bonvie does now?

Chelle: What does he do now?

Laylla: He acquires hockey talent for the Boston Bruins.

Chelle: No way. How funny. What a coincidence. That is fabulous. No, I remember at the height of uh they had t-shirts that said donate blood, fight Bonvie. And and there was a time There was a couple of seasons where that's all anybody went for was to see him fight somebody, which really isn't why you should go see hockey. But for a little while it was a big thing.

Laylla: Yeah, yeah. That's actually That's what That what made my kids start to like hockey was Dennis Bonvie fights. My son still loves Dennis Bonvie. So if there is anybody from the Boston Bruins out there, Dennis Bonvie, if you're listening, I would love to see a Bruins game cuz right now that is financially beyond me. Yeah. I did make hockey fun. I I do admit. Not just for Bonvie, there was other great players there and and we did love to go watch them. So that was fun.

Chelle: Yeah, yeah. And And you know there's nothing like in-person sports. That's the other thing. You know, I'm not a huge TV sport fan. There is nothing like walking into a hockey arena or or a baseball stadium or something like that. But it's just TV just doesn't give you that same zip.

Laylla: It is a lot of fun even if you're not a sports person just to go see something like that in person. Just the vibe of it is just fantastic and a ton of fun.

Chelle: Aren't we here to talk about ghosts and paranormal uh stuff?

Laylla: We are here to talk about ghosts and paranormal stuff. Tonight I have a pretty interesting story over here on the West Coast.

Chelle: What you got? What's going on over there?

Laylla: Well, we're going over to Oregon. So we're going to the Northwest up into the Cascade Mountain region. I'm going to like hit this pot back to my homegrown by the way this evening.

Chelle: I know nothing about Oregon other than I've seen pictures of their seacoast and it looks damn fabulous.

Laylla: A lot of it is absolutely gorgeous. Excuse me. Cough to get off.

Chelle: Yeah, right. Remember when we used to say when we were younger, if you're not coughing, you're not high?

Laylla: Yeah, we did used to say that. That's true. That's because what we were smoking was the worst crap in the entire world.

Chelle: Yeah, those were the days.

Laylla: They had been pressed into some weird flaky brick and then stuffed inside a tire and traveled across the entire US to get to us. Anyway,

Chelle: So what's what's going on in Oregon?

Laylla: So in Oregon up in the Cascade Mountains is a place called Crater Lake National Park. And just like you were saying, it's another place in Oregon that is amazing, just an absolutely stunning place. I have to hit this. My husband has a bunch of kief on the top. I don't want it to keep burning.

Chelle: Cannot waste that. No. Cannot waste that.

Laylla: So in this National Park is a mountain and at the top of this mountain is Crater Lake. And what Crater Lake is basically what's called a caldera. And a caldera is a crater that's formed when a volcano blows the top off. So that

Chelle: Oh, that's scary. Why would you swim there?

Laylla: Well, the it happened about 8,600 to 8,000 years ago judging um they've dated it and it's roughly 8,000 years ago, which interestingly the Native American, the people around there, the Klamath tribe, which includes the Klamath, the Modoc, and the Yahooskin, which I hope I'm pronouncing all of them correctly, they have some creation stories that talk about the cataclysm that happened that um could roughly concur occur about the same time as this explosion that formed the lake. So after this mountain exploded and formed a caldera, snowfall over thousands of years have filled this and have created the most crystal clear blue, gorgeous lake that you have ever seen.

Chelle: Ooh.

Laylla: It's over 1,900 ft deep. It's the deepest lake in the United States.

Chelle: No shit. 1,900 ft?

Laylla: And it's either the third or the ninth deepest in the world. I found various counts, but it's the deepest lake at 1,900 ft in the US.

Chelle: You lose your bracelet and they're swimming. You ain't getting that back.

Laylla: Well, you're not going to swim because it is freezing cold. The waters, while beautiful, are bitter bitter cold. The whole place is gorgeous, but very inhospitable. The the beaches are rocky and it and it's volcanic glass and volcanic rock and very sharp. And again, the water's formed from snowfall, which makes it super pure and beautiful, but also bitter bitter cold.

Chelle: Who died there?

Laylla: Oh, everyone. So I've told you that the Klamath people have long had this place in their legends and they've even talked about a cataclysm that happened again roughly about the same time as this volcano blew up and formed the crater. Cannabis break.

Chelle: Yeah, right.

Laylla: One of their legends that I found And again, this is you know kind of second and third hand, but I did find a legend where supposedly a a Klamath woman was at the top of the mountain when it blew up and she was had been waiting for her lover and you can supposedly still hear her cries on the wind when the wind blows through across the lake.

Chelle: Ooh. That's creepy.

Laylla: So although it's very beautiful, again, it's very inhospitable and all the legends around it are bad. It's it's basically an evil place. They say according to the Klamath legend, they say that the lake was sort of a doorway or a crossroads between the darkness of the below world and the the light of the above world. The Klamath also believe that if a person stares too long at the lake's surface, that they'll be unable to look away and they'll get sucked into that underworld. They thought that the lake had the power to hypnotize or mesmerize and trap people even lure them into it towards their death. Um in the lake, there's two islands and the the Klamath people say that the whole place is sacred.

Chelle: Sacred good or sacred bad?

Laylla: Both. Mostly bad. To their way of thinking to gaze on the the deep blue of the water was to risk quote death death and lasting sorrow. There's a legend that was written about uh this woman Andrea Langford wrote a book about their myths and haunted hikes, spine-tingling tales and trails from North America's National Parks. So this myth that she wrote about about says that they have these two gods, Lau, who was a god of the below, and Skell, who is the the spirit of above. And they were fighting, constantly fighting. And in this one fight, Lau ripped Skell's heart from his chest. And Skell retaliated by dismembering Lau and threw his body parts into this lake. And these lake monsters rose up from the depths because they believed it was bottomless and went straight down to the dark world. So these monsters came up and gobbled up all the body parts of Lau except for his head, which created one of the islands that's in the lake. It's like a triangular shape like a wizard hat. So they call that wizard island and they say that that's the island that holds um that was Lau's head and that the lake still holds his spirit, which is kind of evil. And when he's disturbed, he brings up supposedly brings up storm clouds and bad weather around the area. Um and they say sometimes he appears as a giant crayfish that comes up out of the water to the giant cliffs, the rocky cliffs that are around it, and snatches people and brings them down to their death in the water.

Chelle: You know, this this has a striking resemblance to many of the Gates of Hell stories we've come across.

Laylla: Yes, very interestingly it does. And that's kind of why I picked it because you know Shell's had a lot of Gates of Hell stories. I'm going to go with one from out here.

Chelle: How many Gates of Hell are there? That's my question. How many Gates of Hell really are there?

Laylla: That's the question here. We kind of need to know this. I mean, honestly.

Chelle: I mean Did they Did these Did these Native American folk kind of use this as like a a place of worship or or ritual or something of that nature?

Laylla: As far as I can tell, they didn't. Again, they

Chelle: Then why the hell were they up there on its peaks is I guess my question.

Laylla: Well, they were there occasionally and I guess there were um And I'll get to it later, but I know they had burial encampments or like seasonal encampments around the lake. So they did go there occasionally, but they never lived there very long. They would have just like some seasonal encampments there.

Chelle: Vacation homes.

Laylla: Right. There you go.

Chelle: Just don't look at the water.

Laylla: In this lake, this beautiful blue lake that is one of the most gorgeous spots supposedly that you could go see are these two islands. There's Wizard Island. Again, it's named cuz it looks like a wizard hat. And that island is rumored to be haunted.

Chelle: By the head?

Laylla: That's the island that that the Klamath people say is the head. That's right. And that island has a lot of ghost stories associated with it. The other

Chelle: No, are they are they associated with the guy whose head it is or something different, different ghosts?

Laylla: Something different, different ghosts. So as you get closer into modern times, there's a lot of times when people will report seeing fires, like campfires, which aren't allowed. No one's allowed to camp out there. There have been reports of people seeing campfires out there even by a park ranger. Uh this one former park ranger Jan Kerwan, she said she had witnessed um spontaneous campfires appear on the island. And when they go to check it out, there's nobody there including one time she saw roughly what she thought was like 10 people off on the island in the woods around this roaring bonfire. So huge. And she parked her car and went to go stop the people and radioed back for help to get people to come help her because there's like 10 people having a party and a bonfire. But when she reached the site where the bonfire was, there was nobody there and no campfire, no trace of a campfire, nothing. And she was very distressed because she had obviously seen people and had called for backup to get help. And so she was like looking around trying to find them and she couldn't. And then when the backup got there, she learned from her coworkers that that place was a part uh a spot where other people have seen campfires and it had been a a park service campground decades before.

Chelle: Uh-huh.

Laylla: And prior to that, the Klamath people had used that spot as one of their temporary hunting and berry picking camps. So no nobody there, but people see campfires there all the time.

Chelle: Yeah, the first thing I thought of when you said that is it's got to be the Native American spirits still on their land essentially.

Laylla: Now the other island also is mysterious. They don't usually see ghosts, but the island itself appears to disappear on occasion. It's called Phantom Ship Island.

Chelle: Ooh.

Laylla: And it's roughly the same width as uh Wizard Island, but it's much shorter and flatter. It's rough rocky shape almost looks like an old sailing ship with mass and stuff on it.

Chelle: Uh-huh.

Laylla: And something about it, depending on the weather conditions and the lighting, it will look like it disappears from you. It just kind of seems to be there and then not there anymore. And so it it got the name Phantom Ship Island because it seems to appear and disappear like ghost ships.

Chelle: Oh.

Laylla: The third thing in the lake that's really interesting before we get even to all the deaths and the murders, uh the third thing in the lake is something that's called the Old Man of the Lake. And what it is is a giant Sequoia tree trunk that somehow has been floating perfectly straight up and down in the lake for over 100 years.

Chelle: No, it's probably it's Oh wait, no, you said it's 1,900 ft. It can't be rooted.

Laylla: What? It's not rooted at all. They've checked it. Um it's the tree itself has been carbon dated to be about 450 years old before it went into the lake.

Chelle: And no matter the weather, it doesn't tip?

Laylla: It does not tip. It floats straight up and down. Um the No shit. There's about 4 ft of it that are up out of the water at all the all the time that's sun bleached. And the rest of it roughly 30 ft down into the water is the rest of the tree trunk and its roots.

Chelle: How did I Wow.

Laylla: There a lot of people would take their picture. They'll go out to this this tree trunk and there's pictures of park Rangers and people standing on the tree trunk as it floats in the lake.

Chelle: No shit.

Laylla: He is called the Old Man and he just kind of bobs around the lake and sometimes he moves very little and sometimes he'll he'll move as much as 4 miles a day. And they've tried to do studies on why he moves and they can't really figure it out. He doesn't really seem to follow any type of water movement or tides. No. No, there's no real rhyme or reason to how or why he moves. And there are myths and legends that say that that the Old Man controls the weather. And if you try to control the Old Man, bad things will happen. And back in uh I think it was in the

Chelle: That makes me want to ask you right now, has anybody tried to take the damn piece of wood out?

Laylla: No, there were some people that were using a like a submarine to map the lake. And the the tree trunk kept bumping into their ship. So they used chains to try and tie it up to the shore to stop it from moving. And almost immediately after they they've tied it up, the weather turned bad and stormy and it continued to be like that for days until they finally unchained the Old Man and let him float free. And almost immediately the weather calmed and the skies went back to being clear again.

Chelle: I want to see this tree.

Laylla: So the Old Man floats around and he's you know pretty popular. I'm pretty sure it's prohibited to get on him anymore. But you know he's

Chelle: It's all of Is all of this state park property?

Laylla: Yes. This is a park. It's a National Park. It's Crater Lake National Park in the Cascade Mountains of Oregon.

Chelle: Okay.

Laylla: And it's stunningly gorgeous.

Chelle: And you can Can you boat in the water? Like could we get on like a like a kayak and go out to this Old Man?

Laylla: Yes, you can. You can get out on the water and go and see the You can go see the Old Man. You can go out to the islands. However, the area itself is it has a rather extensive history of accidental deaths, suicides, and murder.

Chelle: Oh.

Laylla: Yeah. It with with almost like it's kind of depressing actually how many people fall off the cliffs or get caught in snow storms and die, crash their cars in the ravines. Airplanes and helicopters have crashed there. They actually have an extensive list of all the people that have died there and all the planes that have crashed. I'm not going to go over all of them cuz there's well over a hundred, but I'm going to give you some of the more interesting ones.

Chelle: It's just weird that like there was issues with planes and stuff because like that's in the sky.

Laylla: Some of them are downright creepy. This place this place is eerie. There's something here for sure.

Chelle: Home of the gods.

Laylla: One of the sadder plane crash deaths here involved a couple and this is so creepy, Shell. Just get yourself a joint or something. This couple Genie and Dave Nunn. So on February 26, 1975, Jean drove her husband, daughter, and granddaughter to a little airport where Dave was going to fly the daughter and granddaughter home in his little blue Cessna along with two student pilots that were coming with them. Dave and the students flew the daughter and granddaughter home with no incident. Everything was fine and then the three of them started their flight home. That same night after dropping them off, Jean went to bed early and she woke up feeling a hand grab her leg around 9:30 p.m. And she distinctly felt the hand grab her on the leg and she looked at the clock and immediately called the airport and told them that her husband's plane had crashed at 9:20 and that he had died at 9:30. The airport that the people on the phone flustered told her yes that they had lost contact with the plane at 9:20, but that was it. They had no other information and she insisted that the plane had crashed and that her husband had passed away at 9:30.

Chelle: Wow.

Laylla: Now the plane was not found until seven years later. July 5th, 1982, a hiker just outside the park boundary near a Huckleberry Campground uh right outside of Crater Lake National Park. A hiker spotted what he thought was a a small air airplane and it when he approached it, he found that it was a blue Cessna and that there were skeletons slumped in in the wreckage.

Chelle: Oh man.

Laylla: Yeah, so they had an investigation done and it was confirmed that it was Dave and the two student pilots. So she knew. She felt it. She was right and he crashed in Crater Lake.

Chelle: She was right. Yeah. Why?

Laylla: They don't know. There was another odd plane crash in 1944. Uh these planes called Grumman torpedo planes. I don't know what they are, but they were flying in formation over Crater Lake when one of them just suddenly was gone. Just disappeared. The pilots flying with him just said it was like he was there one minute and then gone the next.

Chelle: That was like some Bermuda Triangle shit.

Laylla: Yep. There was no sign of a crash. There was nothing. The plane was just gone and it wasn't too long later. They did find the plane at the bottom of Crater Lake.

Chelle: How?

Laylla: They don't know. The log of the incident just says that it was as if the lake had snatched the plane from the sky. There had been no sign of a crash, no nothing when they were flying over. It was just gone.

Chelle: When you put it that way, it's kind of creepy. The water just snatched the plane from the sky.

Laylla: That's what it seemed like to the pilots.

Chelle: You know what that says to me? Don't fly over that lake.

Laylla: Right and certainly don't look at it if you do.

Chelle: Now how big a how big of a lake are we talking like as far as width? Is this like a mile wide, 2 miles wide? Like is this like all I know is that it's 1900 feet deep and that there's 2,000 foot tall cliffs ringing it? I don't know. It's a decent size lake. This place has also been home to a lot of suicides and murders and one of the suicides was some called a spontaneous suicide.

Laylla: What the hell is that?

Chelle: A man that was known by Mr. Cornelius. He and his wife were touring the lake. This was in it's in the '70s. So Mr. Cornelius and his wife were touring the lake when all of a sudden he just hands his wife his wallet and his watch and slid down this like rocky shoot in the cliff near the old lake trail that goes down to the lake. They said he was trying to attempt suicide by tumbling down this slide thing, but maybe he thought he could just sled down it to the water or something because when he got to the bottom, he had only suffered a broken leg. But then the guy crawled across the beach to the water and drowned himself in Crater Lake.

Laylla: What the fuck is that about?

Chelle: No intent no signs of suicide, no feelings according to his wife. There was no indication whatsoever. He just all of a sudden it was like he was possessed. He just all of a sudden handed her his wallet and his watch, slid down the thing and when that didn't kill him, he crawled to the lake and drowned himself.

Laylla: So basically what you're telling me is that Crater Lake National Park is a demon portal slash gate to hell

Chelle: Oh yeah.

Laylla: and not only will it drag you to your death, but it will also snatch you from the sky if that's what it takes.

Chelle: And apparently will disappear parts of your body too.

Laylla: What?

Chelle: In 1974, a photographer went out there, Charles McCuller, went out with his fancy equipment to take some pictures of the sunset.

Laylla: Sounds like something I'd do.

Chelle: And he disappeared. So he went out there to take some pictures, all his fancy camera equipment and never came back. His father went out and searched for us whole summer. The FBI got involved and searched for him and nothing was found, nothing. And his dad was just like he would never leave. He wouldn't. This isn't like him. It just wouldn't happen.

Laylla: No. Do you think um that this could be one of those places? You know how there are places that have spirit activity, very negative spirit activity that's kind of stuck there it almost permeates anyone who comes near. I don't know. Maybe I'm not maybe I'm not explaining this right, but

Chelle: No, I hear what you're saying. Like it's a place where obviously the indigenous people felt that it had a negative energy. It was created by a very violent act and they thought

Laylla: And our modern our our modern society does kind of overall think that's a bunch of hooey, when in fact it's not.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: I'm just wondering if this is just one of those very very spiritually negative places that you just really don't want to go to.

Chelle: It very much seems to be. It seems to be. You know this photographer that disappeared his remains were found two years later in 1976, but only his lower half, just his jeans and his leg bones and some socks.

Laylla: Yeah, but that's that's I mean that's easily explainable. You know there's wolves, there's bears. I mean he was probably eaten by something.

Chelle: Nothing was ever found. No boots, no jacket, no scraps of them, no head no head, no other bones were found gnawed nearby. No expensive photography equipment was found near the body, nothing. It was described in several things as if it was sitting on a log. The pants had been sitting there.

Laylla: Oh yeah. That's weird.

Chelle: The ankle bones weren't gnawed off or or sawed off. It was just like they were just gone. Like the feet were just gone.

Laylla: Oh weird.

Chelle: Yeah, it was super weird and they've never found any other parts, no jacket, no nothing. So if animals did

Laylla: There would have been some sort of evidence of of an animal.

Chelle: Or at least his heavy camera equipment wouldn't have been too far from his body you wouldn't think. And his body was found 12 miles from the trail that he had been on, 12 miles. And the day that he had disappeared, there were 7 and 1/2 feet of snow on the ground. So if he had left the trail, he would have had to hike through 7 and 1/2 feet of snow which he obviously did for 12 miles.

Laylla: Wow.

Chelle: How did how did he get there? Why did he go there?

Laylla: Yeah.

Chelle: Maybe if he got hypothermia right where is his camera equipment? And if he had gotten hypothermia maybe he got lost and went through the snow.

Laylla: And where is his camera? Yeah, but 12 miles in 7 feet of snow is a far away.

Chelle: Right and he could have been taking his clothes off with hypothermia, but again they would have found that, you know, there would have been like a clear trail to him or something. So who knows?

Laylla: Now have did you come across any has there been any paranormal investigators that have gone there or any like psychic mediums that have gone there?

Chelle: I'm not sure. The the lodge, the main lodge is rumored to be very haunted. Numerous ghost sightings of of children and people in old timey garb, but I don't know if there have been any type of paranormal investigations done of maybe we could be the first.

Laylla: Ooh. Let's

Chelle: There's also Bigfoot has been sighted here.

Laylla: I love Bigfoot.

Chelle: I know you do.

Laylla: I am one of those people. I love Bigfoot. He's out there.

Chelle: Yes and apparently he's been at Crater Lake. Oregon has the most sightings of Bigfoot than any other state in the country and many of those sightings are at Crater Lake. Rangers once reported so these are official Rangers that work there reported following a large dark putrid smelling hairy creature through the woods and they're trying to track it until it started violently throwing pine cones at them when they and so they had to retreat and then they couldn't find it anymore.

Laylla: That sounds like my buddy Sasquatch.

Chelle: Right. There's even reports that two Bigfoot bodies have been found, dead Bigfoot's, one from a car accident and one I wasn't sure how it died, but supposedly yeah supposedly right after that happened, men in black type people swooped in and and took them away and they disappeared it and then it was never heard of again.

Laylla: Really? Just to go back to our previous episode, they took Sasquatch to Area 51.

Chelle: Well, here you go. Maybe they did because the the park's also the location of numerous UFO sightings.

Laylla: Really?

Chelle: Tons of UFO sightings over it.

Laylla: Really?

Chelle: Yes.

Laylla: That that kind of piques my interest because you've got this kind of kind of energetically negative place that there is stuff not only on surface, but in the air above it. So aliens?

Chelle: Aliens.

Laylla: Perfect match.

Chelle: There's even an official report of a pilot, February 4th, 1997 at 6:15 p.m. A private pilot flying south of Diamond Lake Junction, Oregon just which is just east of Crater Lake National Park saw three disks speeding across the sky lit up pursued by several jet interceptors.

Laylla: Wow. Wow.

Chelle: And a lot of people say that these lights and these disks that they see go in and out of the lake and one of the legends says that that lake is a portal maybe to another universe, maybe to you know the outer universe. I don't know. Maybe it's not

Laylla: Like I said, it is the west coast Bermuda Triangle.

Chelle: Now interestingly enough the evening that that pilot said that he saw those um those disks flying that we were chased by jets. There's also reports of a sonic boom so massive that it set off car alarms all over the area that same night.

Laylla: Is this kind of in a more remote area of Oregon?

Chelle: It is up in the Cascade Mountains, so it's kind of hard to get to. You know you have to kind of get out there to it. There are campgrounds and things out there. It again a national park, great place to go. But

Laylla: Okay. I put my money on portal. This is a portal.

Chelle: Yeah, there's been murders there. A couple people were murdered there like execution style. GM Bigwigs ship what do they call them? Executives like executives from United Motor Service which is a subsidiary of GM General Motors. They were

Laylla: Oh wow.

Chelle: They had their hands tied behind their back, gagged and then led off the side of the road into the brush and were shot in the back of the head execution style and nobody knows why.

Laylla: That was just a normal Tuesday in downtown Boston in the '80s.

Chelle: Yeah, so this place is, you know, pretty spooky, beautiful. The water is so blue that there's a one of the nicer legends is that the the blue bird used to be gray until it swam into the waters of Crater Lake and because the waters themselves are so beautifully blue. So this gray bird flew into the lake and when it flew out it was it's the blue bird that you see today.

Laylla: I like that.

Chelle: That's like the only nice thing I found.

Laylla: But I'm telling you I you know I'm going to put my money on it's a portal. I no longer think it's the portal to hell or a demon portal. I am going with this is an alien portal lake.

Chelle: Yeah, we've got it all.

Laylla: That's where my money's going.

Chelle: Places the site of weird unnatural deaths, murders, Sasquatch, aliens, ghosts, everything. It's got it all, demons.

Laylla: Sign me up. I want to go.

Chelle: So beautiful but deadly. Let's put this under you know beautiful but fucking deadly. You know it it it actually kind of I I do laugh a little bit on the inside that it's got such this negative history and in in almost kind of superstitious air about it, but yeah it's a national park that people flock to regardless.

Laylla: Right and people love it. Yeah. So it really does make me want to go to Oregon.

Chelle: Oh my gosh. I wanted to go to Oregon anyways. But what have you got for us on the east what are you going to try to beat me with cuz how are you going to creep me out tonight, Shell?

Laylla: This is so easy, Laylla. Like so easy. I would say this is and in in in this is just not personal opinion. This is actually other people's opinion as well. One of the most uh haunted locations in the United States.

Chelle: Really? Now a lot of places have have tried to say they have that claimed fame.

Laylla: And and if you recall on my last episode I said something very similar about Gettysburg.

Chelle: It's true. That's very true.

Laylla: Episode eight, go check it out.

Chelle: This is the the we are going back to another asylum and

Laylla: Oh you know I hate those. You know those totally creep me out. They're the worst.

Chelle: They are creepy to begin with.

Laylla: Just the man's inhumanity to man. I mean simply going by that asylums are fucking awful.

Chelle: Well, this is probably the most famous uh lunatic asylum um in the country and it was probably the biggest at the time. This is the Trans-Allegheny Lunatic Asylum located in West Virginia.

Laylla: Oh god. All right. All right. All right. I'm already creeped out. I'm already creeped out. Okay. Hold on. I'm going to let me get some candy. Oh my god. Have do you have a Sees candy out there?

Chelle: No.

Laylla: It's this candy joint. Oh my god. My mother-in-law again shout out to my mother-in-law. Love that joint. Hope you have fun. For my for my birthday, still my birthday month, she was so sweet to me. One of the things she got me was these Sees candies, dark chocolate brittle and you see that the bag is empty because it says dark California brittle. Holy hell these were so freaking amazing. I have to go get more. So good. So good.

Chelle: I love candy. Can't go wrong with candy.

Laylla: Too much dark chocolate lately. I have been pigging out with, but I might need to get more of this dark California brittle cuz it's so good. All right. All right, so hold on. I got some chocolate. I got my bowl packed. All right I need I need my blanky.

Chelle: You're going to need your blanky for this one.

Laylla: I know. Okay. All right go ahead and scare all right I'm ready. Scare me.

Chelle: So not only was this the considered probably the most haunted place in West Virginia, but again very famous, very large, very haunted asylum in America. This actually was constructed in the early 1800s. They stopped construction though in 1858 because this was actually used uh during the Civil War similar to my my last episode about Gettysburg Civil War. Sticking with that Civil War theme. You know as we talked about last time with with Gettysburg in the Civil War, a lot of these people that that were a part of the Civil War were very young um might not have known what they had quote unquote signed themselves up for.

Laylla: Yeah, so many kids and young adults, damn.

Chelle: And died in horrific ways.

Laylla: Yeah. Yeah, war is fucking hell, people.

Chelle: Yeah. Yeah. So at the time the place was known as the Western State Hospital uh when it was first constructed. The reason they had to stop construction in 1858 was due to the Union soldiers wanting to use the land as

Laylla: So one of those things the military's coming through and they're like, hey we need to come and deer this to use it for the military right now.

Chelle: Pretty much. Pretty much. But the man who created the building, Thomas Story Kirkbird

Laylla: Okay. Kirkbird?

Chelle: Or Kirkbirdy.

Laylla: That's just a great Kirkbird. That's a great name. Thomas Story Kirkbird.

Chelle: Kirkbird. I love the name Story. I think that's a fabulous name.

Laylla: That would be a great middle name actually.

Chelle: Right? He was actually a mentally ill man, go figure, the irony. A mentally ill man who wanted to be associated uh with an American psychiatric facility.

Laylla: Why why wait a minute. Is this like some sort of club people want to join?

Chelle: I guess.

Laylla: Like hey I want to be part of the okay. Maybe maybe he wanted credentials here or something. Was he practicing psychiatrist or something?

Chelle: I guess. No, he was mentally ill. He was the surprise, sorry. Okay, so this mentally ill guy for some reason wants to be associated with okay. All right whatever.

Laylla: But he created the building.

Chelle: All right. So during it you know during its heyday it was filled with all kinds of different mentally ill patients. But this Kirkbird guy, Kirkbird, he believed that he had such a weird business model. He believed that the patients should be allowed to roam the facility at free will.

Laylla: Wait a minute. So wait so just because this guy designed the facility they're going to let him come up with any fucked up rule he can think of and they're going to be like well he paid for it so okay.

Chelle: Dude this was like the '1800s.

Laylla: I take it back. I don't like the name Story anymore.

Chelle: '1800s. What are you expecting here?

Laylla: Call him Fuckbird.

Chelle: So anyway he had the brilliant idea to let the patients just roam which you know hey better than being locked in a room. Can't blame them. He believed that letting them roam would help them be cured of their mental illness.

Laylla: What the fuck? That makes zero okay wait. All right so Fuckbird says let them run free and they'll get better, whatever. All right.

Chelle: I need to smoke way more weed for that to make sense.

Laylla: Catch up, Chelle, catch up. Got to smoke way more for that to make sense.

Chelle: That's right. Basically it was built to contain 250 people, but they were each supposed to have like their own room. So it was kind of built to accommodate 250 people that were supposed to have their their own comfortable room.

Laylla: Well, that that sounds kind of nice. I guess that could be I guess you know I'm I'm being negative. That could be nice.

Chelle: In theory in theory though you know with a lunatic asylum this shit's only in theory and it's not going to go downhill quick.

Laylla: Right. I mean if you got some of these some of these people are so mentally ill and some of them are violent and some of them really should not be roaming free.

Chelle: Right. But according to Kirkbird it was going to cure illness.

Laylla: So in 1863 there was tragedy at the hospital because due to the oh big surprise surprise. You're putting psychopathic murderer people roaming free with your average you know alcoholic housewife and some kid that was born to a whore that has no nowhere else to go. I mean really.

Chelle: But that was also at a point you know you also got to figure 1863 you know we're in the midst of the Civil War. A 1 steak sauce was created.

Laylla: What the fuck? This is the type okay.

Chelle: Leave it to you to remember a food associated thing. Yeah, it was the Civil War, A1 steak sauce. I is there a correlation here? Was it created by Fuckbird in the asylum?

Laylla: No, it was just all in like

Chelle: It's just a food thing. That's okay. It's just this is a Shell thing. All right. I love A1 steak sauce myself.

Laylla: When you smoke a lot of marijuana over an extended many years, you start to learn fun interesting useless facts.

Chelle: Random facts stick in your brain. Well, I love that one. I'm never going to forget it now. Civil War A1 steak sauce was created during the Civil War. I did not know that and it it's actually kind of an interesting fact.

Laylla: You know we're in the middle of the Civil War and the first thing they're coming up with is damn we need a good steak sauce.

Chelle: Well, you have to have your priorities straight I guess.

Laylla: But also besides A1 steak sauce which I love, besides that

Chelle: Excellent factoid, Shell.

Laylla: But with the Civil War going on as you can imagine um there was a lot more there was an increase in mental health diagnoses.

Chelle: Yeah, no shit.

Laylla: You know you're you're 18 years old and your husband goes out for the afternoon and comes back with half his arm, no leg. That was a rough time. The Civil War was a pretty shitty game.

Chelle: Yeah. And he was fighting, you know, the other half of your family.

Laylla: Right. Right. So they took this over is more like a hospital hospital and it was actually so I said built for about 250 people to have their own comfortable room. It was now overrun with 500 patients with different types of problems, not just mental illness and they could hardly even keep up with the patients. So for something that was essentially tagged for 250 people to all the sudden have double occupancy, 500 people, as you can imagine conditions deteriorated real quick and actually.

Chelle: Rapidly. You know they they everybody was crammed together. They were starting to have four or five people in a room that was meant for one person and by 1938 this is how shitty our government is and his always has been. By 1938 the asylum was six times over capacity.

Laylla: What the hell? These are single rooms. How the fuck are they squeezing six Oh my gosh. The conditions there must have been horrific, dirty, and infected. Oh gross.

Chelle: Six times over capacity. Then keep in mind, you know, nobody's shot in the room. You're all just roaming the halls all crazy.

Laylla: That place is haunted haunted.

Chelle: The patients started running wild out of control. There wasn't even any room to keep anybody anymore. Food supply was running low and and you know we're talking

Laylla: How unsanitary is hell.

Chelle: Yeah. Yeah, I mean if you weren't crazy, you were probably getting like staff infection. I don't know. But

Laylla: You're not being attacked by some of the more violent inmates.

Chelle: You want to hear something crazy? At at the peak of the 1950s the hospital had 2,600 patients.

Laylla: Wow. Wow.

Chelle: It was built for 210 times. They were sleeping on the floor in freezing rooms with no furniture or heat. The windows were covered in grime and mold, wallpaper peeling and decayed.

Laylla: Oh that's awful. That's awful. Oh my gosh that sound uh.

Chelle: And you know what started and and you know what started in America here? This was the birthplace of experimental lobotomies.

Laylla: Oh no. Oh no.

Chelle: They had performed over 4,000 lobotomies.

Laylla: What? 4,000?

Chelle: 4,000 lobotomies.

Laylla: What? Ew ew ew ew no. That's the thing where they stick a pick up in your no no up in your eye.

Chelle: Uh uh up your nose in puncture right in the eye.

Laylla: No. No. No. No. And this left some of the healthy patients with brain damage and hemorrhaging.

Chelle: Oh my gosh. They would do did they do that just like to keep people quiet sometimes? Oh my gosh.

Laylla: Can I Can I Can I tell you something?

Chelle: What?

Laylla: They used what was called the quote unquote ice pick method, and it involves slipping a thin pointed rod like an ice pick into

Chelle: No.

Laylla: into the patient's eye socket and using a hammer to force it to sever the connective tissue in the frontal lobe of the brain.

Chelle: Oh no. No. No. No. No. Ew ew ew ew ew. No. Mm-mm. Mm-mm. Mm-mm. No. I need a mental break. Hold on.

Laylla: Yeah. Yeah.

Chelle: Pass me that bong. No, Shell. No. No.

Laylla: And Yeah. And you want to know what's worse?

Chelle: Horrible.

Laylla: Horrible. This place was It this place did not close until 1994.

Chelle: That's horrible. What? What? What?

Laylla: This place did not close until 1994.

Chelle: You're shitting me. You are shitting me.

Laylla: Yeah.

Chelle: They obviously weren't doing lobotomies that they tell me they weren't doing lobotomies like that in 1994.

Laylla: That I don't know. That I don't know. And the only part they ever expanded from the original um build was a graveyard. And since 2007, the owners decided to do day tours and paranormal tours and ghost tours. So this is actually a place Now before Well, before I get into that, they actually believe that there are still about seven or eight specific ghosties that are still there.

Chelle: Only seven or eight?

Laylla: Yeah.

Chelle: That they can distinguish and kind of quote unquote put a name to. Legend says that you can hear uh one of the patients commonly associated with a girl named Lily. Um she was one of the patients from the Civil War era that died from pneumonia at the age of nine. And there has been witnesses that say that if you step into her playroom, you can sometimes either hear her crying or hear her laughing.

Laylla: Well, that sounds creepy. Where's her playroom?

Chelle: There was a room

Laylla: Just one of the rooms?

Chelle: Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.

Laylla: Oof. What does it mean if she's crying or laughing? Oh fuck, that sounds creepy. Kid ghosts are creepy.

Chelle: That also gives you kind of a picture that, you know, you know, mentally ill used as a hospital, but the age range of the patients was from small children to to aged adults.

Laylla: Well, yeah, I know from some of our other um asylum talks and investigations, they pretty much would throw anybody in there. It wasn't just people who had mental illness. It was people who were depressed or who were elderly, people who were alcoholics, or were poor, people who were orphans, malformed, you know, people who had some type of physical ailment. You know, you could be in an asylum for all sorts of reasons, none of which had anything to do with mental illness or your capacity to take care of yourself.

Chelle: Right. Or poor. Or orphaned. Yeah. physical

Laylla: But if you were to look at a picture of this place, Laylla, you would think that it was like a a a manor house, but it it really was more like a house of horrors.

Chelle: Yeah, it sounds like it. Nice on the outside, but absolutely rotten to the core.

Laylla: Right. Right. Because again, you know, you got all that that sadness and death and and disease starting right from the Civil War era. You know, they're they're Nowadays they they do tours, they do paranormal things there. And they've actually talked about that there's a man. They don't know who the man is, but they see him frequently. And he will actually lay his hand on your shoulder and squeeze.

Chelle: What? No, he touches people?

Laylla: He will lay his hand on him. Yeah. Yeah.

Chelle: Why is he touching people? Hey, boundaries here, Mr. Ghost. No shoulder touching. No touchy touchy. Why is he touching people?

Laylla: I don't know. Maybe he's a perv. I don't know. Go eggs.

Chelle: That's all he does? He puts his hand on people's shoulder and that's it?

Laylla: It kind of gives you gives you that little squeeze of I'm here. Even though there's

Chelle: Oh wow. Oh wow. Oh creepy.

Laylla: Yeah. You know, they they have heard people screaming in the medical rooms, which is where at the time the lobotomies would have been held. You can hear screams.

Chelle: Oh man. They know the where the lobotomy rooms are?

Laylla: Yeah.

Chelle: Oof.

Laylla: Actually, this is We got to add this to the list. You can actually go there. They do overnight um tours. They're generally eight hours long. You go in at 9 p.m. You come out at 5 a.m. Um you are in the asylum overnight. They've done shows there actually like Ghost Hunters, and they've all been there.

Chelle: We should go. I would love to go to all these places with you, Shell. This would be so Oh, it would be a dream come true.

Laylla: You know what is interesting about what I have found in my research about Trans-Allegheny Asylum?

Chelle: What's that?

Laylla: You know, some of the other asylums we've talked about, there has been quote unquote spirit activity of staff, the nurse that never left, the doctor that never left kind of thing.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: There are no accounts that I have been able to come across of staff haunting. It it seems to focus 100% on patient haunting.

Chelle: They got the fuck out even in death. They're like, I am not staying here. This place is being run by the patients. I'm out.

Laylla: Well, one of the myths was was that when it actually closed down, all of the staff went into the chapel area and kind of did a religious ceremony to cut ties with the asylum.

Chelle: Smart. Oh wow, that's actually really smart. I mean, we talked about when we go to uh the RMS Queen Mary, staging ourselves down with some incense, totally cleansing ourselves. Smart It's smart thing.

Laylla: Right. Right. So yeah, they actually held a religious ceremony to kind of end their time. I think probably in their mind it was more we did a lot of shitty things and we want to kind of confess our sins to our maker kind of idea. But I think that what they actually did was they kind of severed their spiritual ties with the joint. And that is kind of

Chelle: Well, I would hope that they asked for forgiveness too if they did any of those horrendous things to people. At least in some way you need to atone for that. That's terrible.

Laylla: I mean, there has been sightings like it it almost was like things were left there. You can go there. There's wheelchairs there. There's still toys there, filing cabinets. Um there's still phones on the desk, the old like rotary phones.

Chelle: Oh wow, super creepy.

Laylla: So there have been reports that all of a sudden wheelchair will just be like rolling down the hallway all on its own.

Chelle: Dang.

Laylla: You'll go into one of the playrooms and you'll be in there by yourself and all of a sudden the ball will just start rolling across the floor to the other side of the room. So it's not that they can necessarily say that, you know, patient XYZ just roll that ball across the room.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: You know, they they

Chelle: But just things happen.

Laylla: Right. Right. You know, they can they can kind of pinpoint Lily just because of of some certain details. But other than that, they can't really kind of tie a lot of the activity to specific patients per se. But you know, it's not just apparitions. It is the You know, you're feeling like you've been touched and grabbed and physical objects are now moving. You know, you're hearing audio things. So there's the gamut of of paranormal activity here. And the thought of being able to just go pay 100 bucks and stay there from 9:00 at night till 5:00 in the morning is so appealing to me.

Chelle: It does sound like a lot of fun. I'd be there. I'd go with you, Shell. I'll go. Just Just partly go there. Can I bring my stash?

Laylla: I don't know about West Virginia. If any of of our listeners are from West Virginia, can you please let us know if marijuana is legal in your state?

Chelle: Google would know.

Laylla: Give me some uh Give me some hold music. We go West Virginia. No. It is not legal.

Chelle: Medical marijuana is legal for registered patients, but they're still in the process. And adult use recreational cannabis is not legal in the state of West Virginia.

Laylla: I have a 4-second bitch about medical marijuana. My 4-second bitch is how come my medical card doesn't work state to state and only in the state issued?

Chelle: Federal. Because it's right now it's state by state mandated. There is no federal broad Like marriages are federally recognized. So any state you get married in And plus states Anyways, probably a bad analogy. But you know, it's not There is no coalition of states that said we promise to recognize what other states do, and there is no federal legalization as of yet. So there's no blanket protection across the country.

Laylla: Yeah. They could do it. Would take a minute. I mean, what the hell? Anyway, we're not going there. Different podcast.

Chelle: Different podcast. So Trans-Allegheny Asylum.

Laylla: Sounds creepy. Super creepy.

Chelle: When you combine the Civil War era traumas and and horrors that we know of that time frame combined with, you know, this is where they they were doing experimental lobotomies in thousands of them. You can imagine that they're again, you know, kind of like Gettysburg, there's some sad people here. And because a lot of these people are mentally ill, they don't know they're dead yet. They almost feel like they're still living there. You know, they're they're playing ball in the playroom and, you know, shuffling their wheelchair down the hallway. But this is Again, this is supposed to be pretty much the most haunted asylum in America. And I believe it is the only one that you can actually do overnight um tours at.

Laylla: I don't know, Shell. I have to say I think looking at both of our stories this evening, Mine, National Park, Campground, Gorgeous Lake. I'm saying let's go. Let's tell some stories around the campfire. It sounds like a great spooky time.

Chelle: Just don't look at the water. Yours is fucking creepy.

Laylla: Yeah.

Chelle: I'm downright scared. I think you win this evening. I would have to say yours sounds way spookier. If I Just against I'm just saying if we were to camp at Crater Lake, Fun spectacular evening. If we were to go do an overnight at the asylum, totally fucking scared. So yeah, you definitely win.

Laylla: But at Crater Lake Here Here's why I would actually think that maybe you win tonight because at Crater Lake, hey, we're camping. And who doesn't love camping?

Chelle: Yeah, there's a win right there. Different kind of win, but still a win.

Laylla: Right. But we could see Bigfoot or aliens.

Chelle: Right. There is Okay, that's true. Good point. There's a lot there.

Laylla: I can see ghosts. I can see ghosts any old time, okay? No offense to the ghosts.

Chelle: Oh yeah, but those ghosts are so creepy. Oh my gosh. Little girl laughing, toys, stuff moving on its own. So fucking creepy. Lobotomy people screaming.

Laylla: Bigfoot, spaceships going into the lake.

Chelle: UFOs. Yeah, Gateway to Hell. Don't look at the water. Would you look at the water? Like how can you not?

Laylla: I would and I would be like, I can't. I can't. Oh my god, I can't. I can't.

Chelle: I think he's so scared. I would probably like not stare directly into it, you know. I'd make up rules. I can kind of glance at the water, but I just won't stare deep into its eyes or something.

Laylla: Well, Laylla, between you and I, we'll call it a draw because I'm intrigued so much by yours, you're intrigued so much by mine. But if any of our listeners have a preference who wins tonight, East Coast, West Coast, email us, hit us up on Instagram, or I don't know, go to YouTube and leave a comment. Let us know. Yeah, all right. Fair enough, Shell. Fair enough. I think you're right. There's enough to say that either one could be super creepy this evening. So for sure, we'll let the listeners decide. And we have listeners in so many different countries now are having a lot of fun. So thank you all for listening. Shout out to all of our listeners. We are now up to many many tens.

Chelle: To many many many many many tens in many many countries, including If you want to give a special shout out to you have a friend listening overseas.

Laylla: I do. I I want to give a special shout out to my friend in England. He knows who he is. Rock on, buddy. Miss you.

Chelle: Thank you so much for listening. We really appreciate it. All right, let me quickly look and see what I'm doing. Do you know what you're doing?

Laylla: Well, let me pull out my list. And I got to pull out my list too. I have a list at least.

Chelle: Ooh, you You're making progress.

Laylla: Right. I feel better that you don't have one picked out exactly yet. Where's my list? That'll be episode 10. So what are you doing for episode 10, Shell?

Chelle: Wow, double digits. Dun dun dun.

Laylla: Yeah, I know. It's episode 10, kind of fantastic.

Chelle: So for episode 10, um we're going to actually take a trip to the Hoosac Tunnel in Massachusetts. Nothing better than a haunted tunnel.

Laylla: All right, cool. That works.

Chelle: But I'm actually super excited about our our our next two episodes um Hoosac Tunnel. And then we 're going to After that, we 're going to break out into some of our uh listener stories. I love listener stories.

Laylla: I'm super excited about that too. I have never heard of the Hoosac tunnels. What's their What's their claim to fame?

Chelle: Death.

Laylla: Duh.

Chelle: Okay, cool. So I am going to talk about a place that's very near and dear to my heart. Joshua Tree. Joshua Tree National Park.

Laylla: I don't know really anything about Joshua Tree, so this will be interesting.

Chelle: I fell in love with it when I came out here and I'm going to share some spooky sad stories from there and some interesting facts. So Joshua Tree, yeah. And

Laylla: You know, I I I think that that you're going to need to explain if this is actually Are they trees? So when when when when you start your story, I need to know if these are actual trees or not.

Chelle: All right, I got you, Shell. We'll go there next next episode. Tune in for some Hoosac tunnels and our Joshua Tree is trees or not. Do do do.

Laylla: Thanks again for listening to the Stone Witches Hour with Chelle and Laylla. Make sure to like, subscribe, and maybe leave us a review. Check us out next week at 4:20 a.m.
