Laylla: It's witchcraft.

Hey, it's 4:20 AM, hi and welcome to the Stoned Witches Hour. I'm Laylla.

Chelle: I'm high, but I'm also Chelle.

Laylla: And today we have a guest, our very first guest ever, we have Tom from Storytime with Tom and Mike.

Tom: Hi. Thanks for having me on, guys.

Chelle: I would just like to point out we're East Coast happy tonight, so, you know, the West Coast doesn't stand a chance, my friend.

Laylla: Oh, all you need is one of me over here on the West Coast because it is definitely the best coast.

Tom: Haha.

Chelle: Oh, we're so excited to have you here, by the way.

Tom: I, I couldn't wait. In fact, I didn't sleep well, and I had butterflies in my stomach about for, for about an hour prior to the show. And I was like, I was looking at my email and I was like, when it comes up, should I click it right away or should I wait? Like, would that be weird if I just clicked it immediately? Like, I'll, I'll check out this game I downloaded last night. This isn't holding my interest at all. Oh, fuck. Well, I'll go out for another cigarette, you know? It was terrible. It was terrible.

Laylla: I admit I smoked several bowls doing the same thing, waiting for the email when we went on your show just recently.

Tom: Yeah. The episode title, it's episode 139, The Guacamole Debacle.

Laylla: Yes, guacamole did come up, if I remember correctly.

Tom: Several times.

Tom: Are those Peeps?

Chelle: Easter's coming, treats are out. I am about to snack on tropical burst Peeps. So, I will be ready to review those momentarily. It's a Peep lollipop.

Laylla: Now that's a stoner's treat stick right there.

Chelle: You just need a chocolate fountain to go with it.

Laylla: Yeah.

Chelle: It's, it's a long wooden stick with four different colored Peeps on it.

Laylla: Is impaling a marshmallow Peep part of the Easter tradition?

Chelle: Uh-huh. And then you always eat them butt first.

Laylla: Oh, all right. I am not a Peep fan, but I'll take your word for it.

Tom: I'm not either, but are, do you have them in like Roy G. Biv order?

Chelle: Um, this is just how they were bought. So,

Tom: Okay. Oh, they're not in Roy G. Biv order. Okay.

Chelle: But I will say, I did get something, I'm trying something new. They're tropical burst.

Laylla: What the hell is that monstrosity?

Chelle: I'm going to find out, but I got to eat the lollipop first, and then I'm going to give a taste to the tropical burst Peeps. So, I have Peeps, and then I have my pretzel crisps.

Laylla: Very nice. So, you've got your munchies.

Chelle: I do.

Tom: I belong to a Facebook group called, um, aggressively bad eating or something like that. I forget exactly what it's called, but it's, it's like just like meme posts of different stuff people have eaten.

Laylla: That's terrible.

Tom: That is like, that's like, how dare you even do that to yourself? One was a Cheetos milkshake.

Chelle: Ugh.

Tom: Can you imagine? I can't even imagine.

Laylla: Well, I am now, thanks, Tom, but no, I would prefer not to.

Chelle: Who the fuck would drink a Cheetos milkshake?

Laylla: Ew. That's like crossing the line.

Tom: You could not get me stoned enough.

Chelle: No.

Tom: I don't care what it is. You could give me Willie Nelson weed and I'd still be like, yeah, I'll pass.

Laylla: I am not eating a Cheeto milkshake.

Chelle: I'm with you.

Tom: Although that taco from Taco Bell with the chicken shell sounds pretty fucking good right about now, you know, like that.

Laylla: Fuck yeah.

Chelle: Hell yeah.

Tom: You have to be pretty stoned, but at the certain point,

Chelle: Yeah.

Tom: Yeah, you have to hit a certain point. You have to be like smoking all day and really good shit, like stuff that like sparkles when you look at it, you know what I'm talking about?

Chelle: Oh, yeah.

Laylla: Oh, yeah. That Snoop Dogg kind.

Chelle: Yes.

Laylla: Or Mike Tyson weed.

Tom: Yeah. Do you know he has a brand of, uh, THC gummies? And they're shaped like ears.

Laylla: Holyfield's ear with a bite out of it? Yes.

Tom: Yes.

Laylla: I'm alternately amused and disgusted.

Chelle: Disgusted.

Laylla: Both ways.

Chelle: Yeah.

Tom: It's about as tasteful as OJ's book, If I Did It, but if I did, here's how I would.

Laylla: I think the only way I'd be okay with it is if, it was Evander Holyfield, right?

Tom: Yes.

Laylla: If Evander's okay with it, I'm okay with it. I, I like Tyson. I do, and I'm happy that he's found

Tom: Peace.

Laylla: He's into the weed, he's into peace. I mean, he looks badass with the beard. Have you seen him lately with the beard?

Tom: No, I haven't.

Laylla: Man's looking, man's looking pretty good. But I'm happy that he's found some semblance of, he seems to be happy, and anybody that wants to grow weed and find happiness, I am down for.

Tom: Yeah, I agree. Well, apparently, he, he made up with Holyfield a long time ago. And recently came to him and was like, hey, do I have your blessing to do this? And Holyfield was like, yeah, all right. I'm sure there was some monetary transaction involved as well that probably sweetened the pot, so to speak.

Laylla: Well, then I'm going to stick with I'm amused. I'm going to go firmly with amused then.

Tom: Yeah, I think, I think it's, it's kind of cute in a way, you know?

Chelle: It's, uh, yeah.

Tom: It's almost like an apology to the world, like, yeah, I know I was fucked up. Like, I don't know.

Laylla: Yeah, I kind of look at it that way too.

Tom: I mean, it was 25 years ago, he was in a terrible place, you know? I like to extend grace to people, often to the point where they don't deserve it, but that might be a fault on my part.

Chelle: There's nothing wrong with second chances, but there is a point where you're being taken advantage of. I want to know what everybody is smoking today.

Tom: Ah, yeah.

Chelle: So, we're going to, we're going to actually start with, with our, our guest, Tom. So, Tom, what are you smoking today?

Tom: Today, I, I am smoking Hawaiian Haze.

Chelle: Ooh.

Laylla: I like that.

Tom: Have you ever, guys, have you guys ever tried it?

Chelle: I have not.

Laylla: Interestingly, the strain I'm smoking today is Pineapple Express, and that is a cross of Hawaiian with Trainwreck.

Tom: Oh, okay. Okay. So, this is a cross of Hawaiian and Haze, obviously. Um, I actually pulled up a wikileaf.com article about it. Says, "Many strains have exotic names, while others have exquisite tastes. And there are those that possess, those whom possess both, such as Hawaiian Haze." Wow, I don't know who wrote that, but that was hard to read.

Laylla: So, how is it for you as an experience?

Tom: Uh, it's very energetic. Uh, it's pretty creative. It makes me pretty chatty. Um, a lot of dry mouth.

Chelle: Day weed.

Tom: Yeah, definitely day weed. Not too many munchies, although I am, haven't eaten yet, so I am a little hungry. But, uh, a spiked level of paranoia, I will be honest.

Laylla: And that's not because you're hanging out with two awesome witches?

Tom: No, no. You guys actually comfort me and put me at ease. I was a little nervous, but yeah, I feel very comfortable with you guys. No, last night, you know what it was, it was last, last night, this morning, who fuck knows. Um, I decided I wanted to make my bong more presentable. So, I,

Laylla: That can be a challenge sometimes, depending on how long you have let that bong marinate.

Tom: I let it go way too long. I'm talking probably like a, about six months' worth of residue.

Chelle: Oh, you sound like me.

Tom: I'm terrible, yeah. I just let it go. I just let it go, and it's so bad already, and I just cleaned it last night. See, that's what I want.

Chelle: Laylla's is, are like brand new clean all the time.

Tom: Well, I have, all you need is rock, like rock salt and water. Or, I mean, alcohol.

Laylla: Alcohol, yeah. But it's still, it's a chore. It's a chore. Let's, let's be honest here.

Tom: It is a chore, but it's worth it. And, and, and I think it also depends on the quality of the piece that you have. Cuz a lot of these bongs are made out of cheap, fucking

Chelle: Shit glass.

Laylla: Shit glass.

Tom: glass that's, that's, that's porous. It's porous. Like, you really need to

Laylla: The good borosilicate glass. You need, you need good glass.

Chelle: See, now, my, my version of dirty bong water is like so black you can't even see through it. Like, I, I, I take it beyond, I, I, I'm one of those, you should have taken that away from me four months ago and cleaned it.

Laylla: And she tends to throw them away. She used to throw them away.

Chelle: I'll throw them away.

Laylla: Before she'd clean them.

Chelle: Yeah, I used to throw them away before I'd clean them. I was just like, you know what, fuck it, I'm just going to go buy a new one because I just can't even get that clean. Because I would, I would use pieces until they were so clogged you couldn't pull a hit off of them anymore.

Tom: Yeah, I've done that. In fact, last night, or not last night, but a couple days before, I took the stem, and I have like a big, huge industrial-sized bag of, of pipe cleaners. And I'm in there with the thing, and I'm cleaning the stem cuz I realized that it had extruded over time to take up half the circumference of the inside of the fucking stem. And I pulled out, I pulled out a pound of what looked like raw, like straight cancer. Just

Chelle: Yeah. Yeah.

Tom: It was horrible. And, and then I remembered, I remembered the fact that there were, there were days in my life when I did scrape

Chelle: When you used to smoke that.

Tom: Yeah.

Chelle: Yes. Yes. Me too.

Laylla: I've known people that smoke that.

Chelle: Laylla would never do it. Laylla would never do it.

Laylla: No, I'm not a fan. I, I have been very privileged in my life to not really ever be short if I didn't want to be short. Um, so I haven't really had to worry too much about it. You had mentioned you were smoking, um, Hawaiian Haze?

Tom: Yes.

Laylla: And I'm smoking Pineapple Express, made famous by the Seth Rogen movie Pineapple Express.

Tom: Mhm.

Laylla: And it is also a, a Hawaiian descendant. I believe it's a Trainwreck and Hawaiian cross. It's also very uplifting. I like it because it helps me to stay energized and focused, and helps to lessen some of that social anxiety. You know, you're very easy to talk to, Tom, but I'm definitely a, a hermit-type person. I don't do great in social situations, just ask Chelle. And so, having something that helps me to feel a little more social and, and upbeat is, is definitely key here. So, I like it for that. It's pretty tasty, too.

Chelle: Now, I went out today. I went to the store this morning. You know, the rush of my day, I woke up late, had to go to the weed store, had to get my snacks. But, I came across three things that I've never heard of, and you know how I like the combination of high THC content and I've never heard of it before.

Laylla: Something new, that's right. What did you find?

Chelle: You probably both have probably heard of at least one or more of these. So, I got this, uh, Biscotti Super Fire.

Tom: Mmm.

Chelle: Anything with super fire in the name, and I, so, we've talked about how, uh, most places around here provide awesome customer service and they will talk to you about weed for days. I just said to the guy, he's like, "Well, you know, there's this Biscotti Super Fire." I go, "Is it super fire?" And he goes, he just looks me dead in the eye, he goes, "Super fire." And I'm like, "I'll take it."

Laylla: In that like stoner, weed guy behind the counter way? I love it.

Chelle: In that stoner, yeah. I love it.

Tom: I love dispensary employees. They're so laid back and cool.

Chelle: And informative, and chatty.

Tom: No, no exception.

Laylla: Where are you guys finding these exceptional, I feel really bad for my state here. I've had some great weed tenders, some bud tenders, but for the most part, the bud tenders here just, they're not that interested. Next, next.

Chelle: East Coast is the best coast. These people want, I mean, if they were allowed to smoke in the store, they'd be like, "Hey, you want to take a couple puffs? Let's both try it together here." You know, puff, puff, pass kind of thing. They're that friendly and willing to assist you.

Laylla: Now, the grow stores, the garden centers, where I get like my soil, because I, I grow in dirt, you know, get my soil, get my nutrients, they're pretty cool. They'll talk to me for days on end about weed, all aspects of it. But not so much in the dispensaries. You guys are very lucky with your bud tenders.

Tom: Yeah. Yeah.

Chelle: But there's more. There's more. So then he was like, "Well, we got this stuff called Runtz." And I was like, "Ooh, like the candy?" And he goes, "Absolutely like the candy." He goes, "It even has like a light candy flavor." I'm like, "Okay, you better not lie to me." He lied. You know how I get bitchy about the, the name versus the actual taste.

Laylla: You do.

Chelle: But, this is 35.77 THC, so I don't give a shit if it tastes like dog's ass.

Laylla: Wow, you have got some amazingly high THC out there.

Chelle: I don't care if it's, if it tastes like a dog's ass, I'm smoking the whole eighth, and I'm going to love it.

Tom: 35?

Chelle: Point seven seven. And there's more. I got one more. This one's called MAC 1, and this one, this is a hybrid, by the way. Oh, I forgot to tell you. So, Biscotti Super Fire is an indica, and then Runtz, hybrid, and this MAC 1 is a hybrid, but this one, 36.02 THC.

Laylla: Chelle, I was this close. I think it's such a coincidence. I was this close to getting MAC 1 today.

Chelle: Really?

Laylla: This close, yes. And then I, I, I wrapped it all up with a pre-roll. This is also infused with butter, with d's, not t's.

Laylla: That's right.

Chelle: Budder, not butter.

Laylla: The good stuff.

Chelle: The good stuff. And this one is like 51.59.

Laylla: Yummy, yummy.

Tom: My god.

Laylla: I'm guessing you're a medical patient in PA?

Tom: Yes.

Laylla: Tom?

Tom: Yes.

Laylla: Now, do, are, what's available in Pennsylvania as for medical patients retail?

Tom: It, it depends on the dispensary, but a lot of times, it's like some store product. Like, it seems to be like products that are, that follow certain companies. Like, for example,

Chelle: Like grow their own kind of thing?

Tom: I think so, yeah. Or they get it from the, a, another, a national supplier or something and just slap their, their logo on it for a fee or whatever. You know, you know how, how that shit works, basically. But, it's kind of like when you buy the generic brand of beans or the, you know, the Boston baked beans, and it, it turns out to be they were canned in the same factory using the same source. So, you know, it's just a matter of what labels on it.

Laylla: Right, they just put a different name on it. That's what you're paying for. And a lot of times, I think you're right, that's what's happening with a lot of the, a lot of the cannabis that goes out.

Chelle: You know, I don't, I don't think that's the case here, though, in Massachusetts, because a lot of these places, um, like that one place I like, Happy Valley up in Gloucester, they grow on-site where their retail establishment is. And you park your car and you get out of the car, and as you're getting out of the car, that smell hits you like a wall because in one area is their grow warehouse, and in the other area is the retail place. A lot of these, a lot of these places here, they, they grow in production for their own store, and then like you go to one store and you can buy some from the other store. You know, they kind of swap their brand. But a lot of the places here, each, each establishment has their own grow.

Laylla: If you want to know what the color green smells like, go to a cannabis warehouse where it's wall-to-wall plants. It's a distinctive aroma. You'll definitely know what green smells like if you go to some place that grows cannabis, for sure. Now, do they have, um, any type of distillates or concentrates, any of like the shatters or budders?

Tom: Yeah, they have a, a fair, uh, amount of that. I, I find their lack of stuff kind of frustrating. And to be quite honest, in Pennsylvania, at least, the, the pricing, the price point is so high that I, without incriminating myself, find it, it's, it's better not to go to a dispensary.

Laylla: Understandable. Can, can you say what roughly what like a gram is in a dispensary?

Tom: A per gram, let's see. Let me do some math here.

Laylla: Or how do they know, do they normally sell it in higher amounts, like halves?

Tom: They'll sell it in three and a half grams, seven grams, and sometimes in, in, in like 14 grams.

Laylla: Okay.

Tom: So, not, nothing more higher than that.

Chelle: I, I'm actually kind of glad we brought this particular thing up because I wanted, I have a bitch today, and I wanted to mention this bitch, and it is about exactly what you're talking about. And I have my receipt from this morning. I go to two, two different stores. One is a little bit further away, one's closer. Today, I went to the closer one because I wanted to get with you guys.

Tom: Sure.

Chelle: You know, the, both of these stores will advertise an eighth for $60, 3.5 grams for 60 bucks, which, first of all, remember the days when you could get 3.5 for 30 bucks? Where are those days?

Tom: Yeah, exactly.

Chelle: 3.5 for 60 bucks. Now, if I go to the one that's about 20 minutes away, my fave place, they say 60 bucks, you roll up with 60 bucks, you get your eighth, you walk out. Now, the place I went to today that happens to be closer, you get a eighth for 60, and then you get to the register and the tax is on top of it. So, at the first place, the 60 includes the tax. At the second place, the 60 does not. Now, granted, I got more, I got a couple of eighths today, but my total should have been X amount of dollars. Sales tax for cannabis: 13.38. Marijuana excise tax: 23.01. Local marijuana tax: $6.42. My total taxes for the day, just taxes alone, were $42.80.

Laylla: They kind of hide that here in California. You just get the price that you pay. They don't tell you how much of it is taxes. It, it is quite a bit. And the eighths here, $60, that's, that's more for higher-end stuff. Do, do they have lower-cost eighths, or is it just $60 straight across the board?

Chelle: Well, my favorite store, when, when they say $60, the tax is included and you just pay 60 straight. They are also the place that has sales all the time. So, I can sometimes get an eighth for either 39 or 45, as opposed to the 60, if you catch the sale. The way they advertise between the various retail establishments is they make it look like everybody's charging 60 an eighth, and they're not, because some of those places already include the tax and some put the tax on top of that. Why be shady motherfuckers? That is my issue. Like, their weed is not any better than the store 20 miles up the road, but yet, I have to end up paying like fucking $72 after tax, when if I go up the road, it's $60 fucking flat even, which is still highway robbery.

Chelle: Ours is graded. You can buy, you can buy lower end middies and higher end, and it will be different prices, you know, down to as little as like $25 an eighth. You can, obviously, it gets cheaper as you buy in larger quantities. So, if you're buying an ounce, you're going to pay much less.

Laylla: Kind of, yeah, but not really here. And also, the 36% THC weed is the same is the same price as the 19% THC weed.

Chelle: That would be different here.

Laylla: There's no, there's no grade. It's 60 an eighth, period. 60 an eighth, no matter what you get.

Chelle: Is it like that in Pennsylvania, too? Is it all one, one price for everything?

Tom: It is. It is, yeah. It's about, it's about volume and brand. So, whatever the brand sets it at, it doesn't matter what the, what type of, if it's a CBD or if it's a type of strain or whatever, it doesn't matter how much THC is in it.

Chelle: The price is just the price.

Tom: A flat price, yeah. And, it, I'll be honest with you, I was just doing the math here while you guys were talking about what you're paying and, I can get the same amount of weed, not at the dispensary, for half.

Laylla: If not less.

Tom: Literally, if not less.

Laylla: If not less than that.

Tom: Because I have a friend, she's, she's not a, a dealer. She just, she's got a lot of weed. And, so she buys Imbolc.

Chelle: Mhm.

Tom: And she just gets it from somebody, and I don't know that person, and I'm fine with that, you know? Uh, it, you know, it's a very casual thing that we just, hey, we'll hang out and, yeah, cool. I find it's every bit as good as the stuff that I've gotten at the dispensary, if not better.

Chelle: It probably is.

Tom: I, I, that could be my imagination. Some, when you're as fried as I am, as often as I am, you, you, it's hard to gauge a high. Like, my friend is always like, "I want you to try this. I want you to try this. You're going to love it." And I'm like,

Laylla: And you're just like, "Meh."

Tom: "I'm high." I, well, I'll just turn to her and I'll say like, "Yeah, I'm high." Like, like, what more do you want from me? Yes, I'm high.

Chelle: You know, I was thinking about that a little bit sometimes when we talk about weed, because I, I do have a very high tolerance. I, I smoke for pain and for other reasons as well. So, for that reason, I, I do tend to smoke quite a bit. And so, a little bit, some of those nuances will be lost on me as I'm smoking. Same, like you're mentioning. You know, weed is pretty much weed. But I do feel differences in different types of weed, maybe because, um, I, I think what we've just been talking about is a huge reason why everyone needs to kind of grow their own and do that, because it's vitally important that we don't let this corporate everything take over what is essentially a weed that's very, very easy to grow.

Tom: Yeah.

Chelle: One person can grow for a co-op, can grow for a group of people, and everyone can get their medicine or their recreational weed cheaply and easily, and it's clean, and it doesn't have a shit ton of packaging. And, and I just, we need to get away from that. Like, the packages that, that Chelle was holding up, those are great and all, and it has a lot of information on it,

Laylla: But they are like environmental killers.

Tom: Mhm.

Chelle: There's too much. There's too much packaging. There's too much taxes. There's too much government involved. There's too much business involved. It's a fucking weed, and you should be able to grow it in your garden, and it should be very easy and, like, way less regulated, in my personal opinion.

Tom: You should be able to walk into the grocery store and just buy a fucking stalk of weed, and it should be by the pound, and you just buy the whole plant.

Laylla: Next to the celery.

Tom: Next to the celery.

Chelle: Right, and if you want to go to the gourmet grocery store and get your gourmet stalk of weed,

Tom: Yeah.

Chelle: great. You know, that's called Whole Foods. That's right. Whole Foods for weed. Whole weed.

Tom: I would totally go to, I would totally buy some potted weed plants just to, to, to take them, because then I don't have to worry about the initial process, which is always the hardest part, you know, is, is, is getting started, um, sort of a jump start to that, and then I learn as I go, you know, harvesting from the next to the next.

Laylla: Plants come to me to die. The starting isn't the hard part. The getting it going, getting the seed going, getting it to, to start, that's not the hard part. The hard part is, okay, now that this thing is like a foot and a half, three feet, four and a half feet tall, now what? And then, shit just dies because I just, I don't, I, I just, that green thumb is not a part of me, I guess.

Chelle: Well, anybody could grow it and should be able to grow it. I know in New York right now, it is legal for recreational as well as medical, and medical patients can grow, but legally, they're not allowed to grow in New York yet until the dispensaries get first crack.

Laylla: That's some bullshit.

Chelle: It is some bullshit. But, you know, of course, they want to give the business time to get established before they allow people to grow their own. And I think that's complete and total crap, because it's very difficult for people to find it, whether they're medical or recreational at this time. And I think people should be allowed to grow it. And, I just think it's ridiculous what they're doing.

Tom: Now, I would like to point something out that I think is very interesting, hard to ignore, is that, you know, pot is easy to grow, mushrooms are easy to grow, you know?

Chelle: Sort of.

Tom: Sort of.

Chelle: Got to do that sterilization thing really well.

Tom: Right, but what I mean is that they're, they're, they're things that, that take on in nature, a, a, a very, a very easy stance on survival as opposed to something more complicated, like a more, like, niche plant, you know? So, these, these things, like, uh, what's another one? That, the moss that grows on wheat, ergot?

Chelle: Oh, yeah, that, that, uh, also will give you visions and can kill you in, in larger amounts.

Tom: Yep. Yep. Yeah, you don't really want to fuck around with ergot. No. But yeah, I mean, they're, you know, and then, you know, other stuff like ayahuasca, which is like a brew or a formula, but that's a little more complicated, in my opinion. I'm talking about stuff that you just pick up off the ground and,

Chelle: Just pick up. Yeah, exactly.

Tom: And, and it's interesting how the universe provides us some of its most profound tools for understanding it right there on the ground. We're literally growing in shit. Which is a metaphysical joke. Is such a wonderful joke as a metaphysical, on a metaphysical level. It's like, all right, here's, here's, here's the thing. You're going to learn more from shit than you ever learned from anything else.

Laylla: From anything else. Wow. I got this chillum this morning, and it's called 413 Diesel. And this one is tapping out at 31.7% THC.

Chelle: Oh, yeah, that's my size queen.

Tom: Oh, wow.

Laylla: So, I'm going to take a puff or two off of this and get ready to talk about some ghosty ghosts.

Chelle: I think this is Laylla's way of saying we've been talking too long and we need to get into the ghosty spooky part.

Tom: We do.

Laylla: Well, yeah.

Chelle: We definitely do. We definitely do. Do you want to start us off with yours, Tom?

Tom: Sure. So, I have quite a bit of notes. I'll try to file this down into the, the, the most interesting stuff so this podcast stays under six hours. I grew up in a house in Hershey. Very old house. I would say, at this point, it's probably, well, I guess it was probably built in like 1890, 1880, something like that. Old farmhouse, brick, uh, really nice, steep kind of roof, like a, like a, uh, what do they call, a, um, there's a term for it, a, a, a chapel roof.

Chelle: Oh, okay.

Tom: Or, uh, that's not quite the right term for it. Cathedral. It's a cathedral.

Chelle: Like that's really steep.

Tom: Yes. Yes, yeah, very steep, like two and a half stories high or something like that.

Laylla: Wow.

Tom: Well, not that high, but, I'm terrible with that kind of shit.

Chelle: That's okay. But big, especially for a kid, probably.

Tom: Yeah, they had added another story to the house completely, and, and it was a huge attic. So, this house, I moved in there when I was in kindergarten. And when it first, when we first moved in, I don't remember anything really particularly awful happening. This seemed to happen when, my, my sister and I got older. We started, right around the time she was probably eight and I, I guess that would have put me at about 12, maybe younger than that. Uh, we started having shared dreams about some entity that lived in the basement and made this horrible sound like a locust.

Chelle: That sounds terrifying.

Tom: Yeah, and, and I remember, I remember, in my dream, which I never told her until she told me hers, because it was right around the same time, too, my dream, I was down in the basement, and it was sort of an unfinished basement with a lot of tools and stuff, and, and I was staring at a, a, a photograph of a bunch of World War II pilots in uniform standing in front of a plane. And, as I'm looking at it, I hear this voice say, "Those are all the people in the war who went missing." And I, and then it gets dark, and I look up, and there's this faceless, glowing white entity standing there. And I was terrified, and I woke up, you know, screaming.

Chelle: Oh, yeah.

Tom: Um, and then, and then that same night, I had dreams about locust noises coming from the basement. Well, then my sister, like a week later, is like, "I had this crazy dream about the basement, and there were like these locust things living down there, and they were like made out of like shifting white light."

Chelle: No way.

Tom: And I was like, that's so, yeah, and I was like, that's super fucked up. That's a lot like the dream that I had. But that's, that's just surface level shit.

Chelle: Did your basement make, like, in, in your waking state, did the basement make any type of weird noise? Is there some sort of like real life basis why you guys might, might have both been dreaming about that type of noise?

Tom: No, it did not. Um,

Chelle: That's wild.

Tom: Yeah, and, and it was, I don't believe it was during a time of year when the locusts were active, either. Um, so,

Chelle: Yeah, because that's something you guys would have been able to place if it, if, you know.

Tom: Right. Right.

Chelle: Now, did she see, I, I'm curious about the pilots that you saw. Did she see anything similar to that, or was it more of the sound that she remembers?

Tom: She remembers the sound and something like a shapeless entity. Wow. Um, yeah. So, yeah, I, I actually called her the other day to, to get some more details on some of her stories, and she gave me a doozy, which I'll tell in a moment. But, yeah, so this house, it seemed like stuff mostly happened during the winter.

Chelle: Interesting.

Tom: Yeah, like I feel like maybe the veil was thinner there for that place or something. There were two entities. There was, uh, Alice. We called her Alice. Um, I was, I remember I was sitting in my living room watching TV one day, and my, my mom and my sister, this house is sort of divided into four quadrants, rooms, you know? They're all equal size. And there was the front room, which was in the front left, and then to the right was the, the, the living room. And then, back from that was the, the, the dining room, and then sort of wrapped around on the other side of the staircase was the kitchen. So, you couldn't see one room from the other. So, my, my mom and my sister are playing some board game in the, in the dining room. I'm in the living room watching TV, and I happen to look over, and I see this little old woman standing at the, the base of the stairs. And she's smiling at me. And she's completely translucent and glowing like a blue color.

Chelle: Holy shit. What did little you do?

Tom: Well, I was about, I was about 14, so I wasn't that, that young. But, I just kind of went, "Whoa." And then, it went away. And, and then I turned to my sister, and I was like, "Did you guys ever see anything weird in the house?" And they're like, "Like what?" I was like, "Like an old lady." And they're like, "Oh, yeah, that's Alice." All nonchalant, like, yeah.

Chelle: Like they had already been seeing her, but they knew her. They're old friends.

Laylla: Why did they call her Alice? Was Alice just what they decided to call her, or was there someone that they were able to trace it back, some real person named Alice?

Tom: The woman who lived in the house prior to us was named Alice.

Laylla: Okay.

Tom: And she died in the house.

Laylla: Okay.

Tom: I believe she fell down some stairs and broke something, but, I, I mean, you know, I was very young when I moved in, and I really should have called my mom and done some more homework on this because I don't know the answer to that. But, yeah, I, I think because we had a next door neighbor named Mary Ann who, who told us about Alice and how nice and kind, benevolent a woman she was, and it definitely matches up with my perspective of the person or entity that I saw, you know?

Chelle: Was that the only time you saw her?

Tom: Yeah. Although, I strongly believe that she kept a watch on the place. Like, like she protected us. And she had something to protect us from, because there was another entity called the, I call it the Void. My sister, I told that to her, and she said, "That's about a good enough name for it," you know.

Chelle: So, she's seen the Void as well as Alice.

Tom: Oh, yes. Oh, yes.

Laylla: Was the Void in the shape of a body, so to say, or just more like a black blob?

Tom: A blob.

Laylla: Okay.

Tom: Okay. Yeah, uh, definitely, I, if I had to name it, I would say some kind of shadow person or iteration of shadow persons.

Chelle: I'm getting chills. This is,

Tom: Oh, it's horrifying. So, this thing just, it just radiated darkness and, and anger and, just negative energy, like hate. It was, it was like a personification of fear.

Chelle: Where would you, where would it normally appear? Did that, at the bottom of the stairs as well, or in different places?

Tom: In bedrooms. In bedrooms. Yeah.

Chelle: Oh.

Tom: Especially in the attic bedroom. He'd like to show up in bedrooms. It showed up in bedrooms. I don't know why I'm calling it he. Um, yeah. I remember one, the, the mildest of the stories was my experience. So, I'll go from there. I, I lived in the attic room until I left for the Army in '97 or '96, somewhere in that vicinity. And, I was, um, up in my room, and I just opened my eyes, and there was this darkness floating over me. And it was just so consuming.

Chelle: Wow.

Tom: And I was like, and I remember looking at it and going, "I'm not afraid of you. Fuck you." And then, I closed my eyes and I went back to sleep.

Chelle: Dude, did you notice if it went away, or did you just not give a fuck at that point?

Tom: I was like, fuck it. I've lived in this house this long. I've seen so much fucking shit. You know, this, mine was a later encounter, you know? Um, and I just decided, I was like, and this is weird, and my one friend, uh, from, uh, Peru often tells me this is true, is that I'm protected somehow. There's something, there's an entity, and I'll talk about that in a minute, too. There's an entity watching over me.

Chelle: Interesting.

Tom: And I don't know why. I don't know why. Maybe I have something important I'm supposed to do. I don't know, but,

Chelle: Yeah, or someone, an ancestor looking out for you or something that they want you to do, yeah.

Tom: Something like that, yeah. I have my theories about who it is. I have two theories, but that's getting ahead of myself. So, I, this thing, yeah, it's floating over my bed, and I'm like, I remember saying to it, "Fuck you." And then, just closing my eyes and rolling over and being like, and the next morning, my eyes were all funky and like gum, like gooey, you know, like,

Chelle: Honestly, the, the "fuck you" is a good enough spell. That's a spell right there. Telling them, "Fuck you," and then closing your eyes.

Tom: Absolutely. You have no power over me.

Chelle: Yep. Exactly.

Tom: You have no power.

Chelle: If you mean it, even a little bit, that's, that's a very powerful shield right there. So, I'm not, not surprised you were able to, but even with the little gunk and the, you know, to show that there was something there the next day.

Tom: I've learned even better ways, magically, to deal with things like that since, but I'll, another thing that I,

Chelle: Oh, yeah, not a complex spell by any means.

Tom: Not at all. But, uh, so, my sister told me a story just the other day. She was up in that room after I moved out to join the Army. And, she was sitting on her futon and looking at her bed from across the room. And she's on the phone with her husband, who was then her boyfriend. And, um, she said, she said that this shadow came off the wall and slipped down into her bed and under her covers.

Laylla: Holy shit.

Chelle: The shadow or this,

Tom: A shadow. Just detached itself from the wall, took on form,

Chelle: No. No.

Tom: slipped under the covers. And she said, she said, "I'm never sleeping in that room again."

Laylla: I was going to say, that's when I'm done.

Chelle: I wouldn't either. I'm out.

Laylla: I'm not getting in that bed.

Chelle: No. No way. No way.

Laylla: Although, maybe it would be a cuddler. Maybe I'd try it during the daytime.

Chelle: No, I don't want to cuddle. I'm sorry. It didn't ask permission first. You can't get in my fucking bed. No.

Tom: Yeah. Well, after you hear the story about my mom, then you definitely not going to want to cuddle with this thing because it's nasty.

Laylla: Oh, shit.

Tom: It's a nasty motherfucker.

Chelle: Oh, no.

Tom: I, I was, uh, my, I was reading a book called Communion, uh, a true story by Whitley Strieber. Uh, it's a story about alien abduction, which is like a whole 'nother podcast.

Chelle: Yeah, it sounds vaguely familiar. I may have touched on it when I was looking up Area 51 and stuff, possibly.

Tom: It's got the most freaky, deaky picture of an alien that I've ever seen. There's something about it that's so haunting compared to every other picture I've ever seen of those types of aliens, the slant-eyed ones. And, it just, it used to enthrall me as a kid, but it terrified me. So, finally, as a teenager, I decided to read it. So, I'm in bed and I'm reading it. Still, I'm up in the attic room. And, I noticed this, when you are reading or absorbing material that's highly paranormal, it's like you open yourself up to it more. Shit happens.

Chelle: Well, I, I agree. I think so, too. Yes, because you get yourself into that kind of state, yes.

Tom: You're more receptive.

Chelle: Yeah. Yeah.

Tom: Yeah, yeah, more shit happens. So, a lot of weird shit going on that summer. And I hear what sounds to me like kids goofing around downstairs on the first floor on the porch. Like I'm hearing like laughter and stomping feet. And I'm like, what the fuck? So, I go downstairs and I fling open the porch door, turn on the light, nothing out there. I'm expecting like a flaming bag of dog shit or something.

Chelle: Right. Some prankster or something there.

Tom: Yeah, nothing out there. I go back upstairs, lock the door, go back upstairs, and I pass by my mom's room and I'm hearing like this really panicked sort of, you know, dialogue going on. So, I open the door and here my my dad is trying to console my mother who is basically in the fetal position. And I'm like, is she okay? He's like, I don't know. I can't get her to calm down. Let me talk to her. You know, I always had a way with her. So, uh always have. And um I guide her out to the room, the other room, and we talk, and she told me that this thing was hanging over her in bed, and that it was just like worse than the devil, she said. It was worse than anything she could imagine ever.

Chelle: Oh, wow.

Tom: Similar similar to what I described and what my sister saw, yeah.

Chelle: Yeah.

Tom: And and she said it wanted to eat her soul.

Laylla: Holy shit.

Chelle: Wow.

Tom: Yeah, and and it was just so fucking I mean, I'm blo- I I don't even know what to say at this point. It's It's just crazy, the shit that I grew up watching and seeing and-

Chelle: Does your family still own that hou- that house?

Tom: No, it's actually a hair cutterry now.

Chelle: That's probably better. People don't need to be waking up to like evil entities hovering over them or trying to climb into their bed. So rude.

Tom: It was such a gorgeous house, though. I always wanted to turn it into like an- an authentic pub.

Chelle: Did you ever did did you or anyone in your family ever do any like research into the house or the property?

Tom: No. I should. I've also wanted to actually go to the the business that it now is and ask them if they've seen anything, you know, and like-

Chelle: Oh, yeah.

Tom: You know, just under the pretense that I'm interested in in in hearing more about their experiences in the house because I grew up here, you know.

Chelle: Sure.

Tom: You know, just shoot them an email or whatever. But-

Laylla: I imagine that Alice's neighbors probably no longer with us, but I wonder if she had ever heard anything.

Tom: I don't know. I don't know.

Chelle: Maybe that maybe that entity is what threw her down the stairs.

Tom: You're not the first person to say that. My friend said that to me yesterday.

Chelle: And that she was still in the house to try to protect and counteract future residents from that blob.

Laylla: It does sound like a protect that she was there to protect, especially since she was smiling at him and was seemed to be very benevolent.

Chelle: Right, but-

Laylla: I love that.

Chelle: I don't know. I get the vibe that maybe that thing threw her down those stairs.

Laylla: It's hard not to think that. You know, you got to kind of wonder where where that entity came from. I've been so enthralled, I've been forgetting to smoke. Kind of along the lines of of how Tom's was kind of about a a childhood home, I real briefly wanted to tell you mine is a mine is a childhood home thing as well. My house uh that I grew up in, similar to Tom's, was kind of like a late 1800s, sometime in the 1890s it was built. I don't know exactly if it was 1891 or 1899, but sometime in the 1890s my childhood home was built. Where I grew up, it was kind of one of the first houses, quote-unquote, in my little town. This had been used as kind of like a a modern-day bed and breakfast or I don't want to say hotel because, I mean, Laylla, you've been to my mother's house. I mean, I wouldn't call it a hotel.

Laylla: No, bed and breakfast.

Chelle: Like a board- like a boarding house type situation. So, it had been used as a boarding house. The founder of the little town I lived in um had a daughter, and he had built this for his daughter to run. She was a single, um never had children. Um so, he built her this house to run as a boarding house, and that would be how she would kind of make her way in the world was by having boarders. She always had men in and out because there was a military base up the street and some manufacturing. Um so, in the early 1900s, this was a boarding house that that was essentially kind of like the main place to get a room in that little area. So, people in and out, but she had her own distinct bedroom. And so, basically, she had this one particular room in the house, and all the other rooms were rented out. So, you know, fast-forward to the blessed year of 1975, um this woman has now passed away in the house. Why do they always have to die in house? Dies in the house.

Laylla: Dying was much more common in the late 1800s, early 1900s. People didn't go to the hospital or hospice for the end of life as much as they do now.

Chelle: Yeah, so-

Laylla: Exactly, exactly. They just stayed home.

Chelle: So, she had like, I don't know, a relative, a nephew or a niece, um that kind of, quote-unquote, inherited the house and just just kind of left it as the boarding house and just kept the renters in it for another maybe decade or two. And then, again, 1975, the glorious year, they decide to sell it. My parents buy it right before my birth, like literally like a week before I was born they buy this house. So, they kind of make it less boarding house, more we just had a baby kind of house. I would say about the time I was maybe seven is probably my earliest recollection. We had at the in the back of the house, it was is a multi-story house. So, on the floor that my bedroom was on, you'd walk up the stairs, and there were two bedrooms, a bathroom, and then a a room at the end of the end of the house, end of the hallway, that was like the whole length of the house. It was this big huge room. I mean, actually, now present day, my mother's turned it into a laundry room. But at the time, it was not a laundry room. And my bedroom was right next to that, and then the bathroom was straight across from me.

Tom: Okay.

Chelle: I always felt like I was being watched. And I mean, as you know, a seven-year-old, eight-year-old, nine-year-old, even a teenager, you know, are your parents watching you? You know, I had a brother six years older always snooping on me. But I always had this like unnerving sense of being watched.

Laylla: In that one particular spot or all over in the house?

Chelle: Never on the first floor, but on the second- but on the second and third floor, yes. But never on the- never on the main floor, never like where the kitchen and living room was. Always where the bedrooms and the attic rooms were. One night, with my bedroom straight across from the bathroom, I very distinctly remember getting up in the middle of the night when everyone else in the house was asleep and having to go to the bathroom. And being a tired little kid, walk out of my bathroom, and something instinctively made me look to the left down to the end of the hall where the the doorway to this long back room was.

Laylla: Oh, no.

Chelle: And I saw a woman standing there. And I just remember screaming and screaming and everybody in the house waking up and my mother going hysterically, "What's wrong?" And I'm like, "There's someone in the house," and, you know, everybody starts panicking and there's no one in the house kind of thing. And I'm like, "She's there, Mom. She's there." And she's like, "What'd you say?" I go, "She's there." And she goes, "What'd she look like?" And it just looked like just like an older lady, like I don't want to say that beehive, but you know how in like the '40s and '50s and '60s older women had kind of that updo beehivey-

Laylla: Yeah, yeah, that big bun thing on their head, yeah.

Chelle: But like like that, and then like this long, I don't want to say a maid-looking dress, but it definitely was like a long dress with like a big apron over it. And my mother was like, "Did she look like so," you know, some she named out some things, and I was like, "Yep, yep, that's exactly what I saw." She goes, "She lives here. Go back to bed."

Tom: Mm.

Laylla: What? So, your your mom Wait a minute. Wait a minute. And you know my mom.

Chelle: I do.

Laylla: So, this is very unlike her character because she is very much she thinks ghosts and blah, blah, blah, she thinks it's a bunch of bullshit.

Chelle: Did she literally mean this was a person that She couldn't have How I'm very confused.

Laylla: As a young kid, I took it to mean that, and in retrospect, being the age I am, I still believe she meant that because, you know, things would happen. And then it got to the point where, you know, as I'm 8, 9, 10 years old, if I woke up in the middle of the night to go to the bathroom, I would start at my bed. I'd make sure my bedroom door was open and the bathroom bedroom door was open or the bathroom door was open. And I would run as fast as I could-

Laylla: Without looking down the hall.

Chelle: Straight across that straight across that hallway, and I'd never look to the left. Never ever ever look to the left. Um-

Laylla: But could you feel her watching you when you did that?

Chelle: Yeah, and I felt like she knew I was up going to the bathroom.

Laylla: I'm sorry, quick side note. Like, did you feel did she give off any type of like energy? Did you feel other than being afraid because there was someone there that shouldn't have been there, did you feel like benevolence or fear or anger? Just just a presence. She was just there.

Chelle: She was just there. And as a kid, that just freaked the fuck out of me.

Laylla: The watcher.

Chelle: But but as much as my mother and my brother and and that part of my family thinks this is a bunch of papacuey, they believe that this woman never left the house.

Laylla: Your mom does not believe in ghosts.

Chelle: My mother does not. Mm.

Laylla: She doesn't even believe in the Pennsylvania Dutch hex signs that she has in her house.

Chelle: She thinks they're beautiful portraits that the beautiful people of Pennsylvania created, and they have no purpose whatsoever other than beauty. But anyway-

Laylla: But she knew that that ghost was there, recognized her as a resident of Oh, wow. I you're you're blowing my mind here, Chelle.

Chelle: Her name is Clara, the ghost. Um Clara, the ghost. So, because my mom actually went and and found her name and stuff so because we were that curious, and everybody who's been at my my mother's house. So, you know, fast-forward a few years.

Laylla: So, wait, wait, wait, wait. You just said everyone who's been at the house. Are you trying to say they all have an experience with her?

Chelle: My my brother, my sisters, my stepfather, my mother, um all have. I have. So, fast-forward, um as you know, at one point, I had owned a house right down the street from my mother.

Laylla: Mhm.

Chelle: So, my mother had a gas station across from her house. As you know, my mother currently does the half of the year down south, half of the year uh in New York. My children were probably my oldest was probably 16, which would have made my youngest 13 or so at the time. And my mother was in Tennessee uh for the winter. And the kids and I had to stop at the gas station on the way somewhere. And, you know, we're at the gas station, everybody's going to look over and look at Grandma's house for a few minutes while we're sitting there. I get in the car after pumping gas, getting ready to go, and my son, who was the younger of the two kids, goes, "Mom, why is there someone in Grandma's attic window?"

Tom: Ooh.

Chelle: And I'm like, "What?" Like, my first thought was, "What are you talking about? Grandma's in Tennessee."

Laylla: The house is empty.

Chelle: Then my daughter goes, "Yeah, Mom. Clara's in the Grandma's window." And I'm like, "What?" And I look over, and I see a female figure in my mother's attic window.

Laylla: Wow. Wow. And you know no one was in the house.

Chelle: When we know, and at that time, I was the only one who had access to the house in the winter.

Laylla: Did you go check it out to see if there was an intruder?

Chelle: No! I knew who it was, and I wasn't going in there. I knew every- I knew. I I wasn't no fool. And that's when it kind of came out that when my kids would stay at my mother's, my kids would see her. And I was like, "Oh my god, why didn't you ever tell me that?" And so, my kids would have experiences every time they'd stay at my mother's. But like, we literally were all across the street at the gas station looking over, seeing this translucent figure of an older woman in the attic window staring out looking at us pumping gas across the street. Because that's what it was. It was like she was looking at us specifically. That was the one thing I remembered about that is that it was almost like she was looking at us. You know what I mean?

Laylla: Wow.

Chelle: No, I I I just wanted to to just kind of end it with present day, my mother still does the half year in New York, half year in Tennessee, and my mother has rigged her house now with a camera system. And things have flown across the room, and she has seen human shapes kind of floating across her security camera.

Tom: Wow.

Laylla: I love orbs. Let's not get into a discussion. I still love them. Have you guys ever um challenged an entity?

Chelle: I have, not that one.

Tom: Well, I'm pretty sure that the void was was some sort of parasitic entity. Um-

Chelle: Do you think it attached itself to you?

Tom: Yeah, I think it attached itself to to that place. And it just sort of dwelled there like I think of it as like the an inner-dimensional leech. That feeds on fear. It has no real intelligence at all. It's just a parasite. But in something in its biology or its cosmology, who fucking knows when you're dealing with higher dimensions or lower ones, um um uh something that exists outside of normal space-time as we understand it um isn't bound by the same physical laws and can feed off something abstract like fear. And I think that something like that, our brains are wired to find patterns in the in the chaos. So, when something is producing a a phenomenon, that something must be processed. And and we translate it into a best fit. So, Something that we can understand better. Right. So, for most people, it's just an inky blackness because that's like the most We're terrified. We're we're instinctively terrified of darkness.

Laylla: That's true. It's a safety mechanism. It's the primal brain trying to to keep us safe from our own curiosity because the world around us is inherently a dangerous place.

Tom: Right. Right. You could fall. You could, you know, fall off a cliff. You could be attacked by a wild animal. You know, you could, you know, step on something sharp and cut your foot open, which in that time in in in age was a death sentence.

Laylla: Yeah.

Tom: You know?

Laylla: Yeah, yeah. From the little demons that would get inside your blood. I I think it's really interesting how much our stories kind of parallel. I'm going to tell you my story, and uh see if you can find where I talk about a house, a staircase, some inky blackness, and family that sees things together. How fun.

Tom: Okay.

Laylla: So, I mentioned earlier the house that I grew up in for a little bit of my childhood. It was also the house that my um my grandparents had purchased back in the early '40s, and they raised their family there. Then my dad had it for a little bit and had his young family there. Then when my parents divorced, he lived there off and on for a long time. So, this house was in our family for a good 50-plus years. Is this the house I've been to before?

Chelle: Yes, it is.

Laylla: Oh my god. I love this house. And this is another Ouija board story, so you're going to like this one.

Chelle: I love this house.

Laylla: Chelle knows this house because the the hauntings here are very well known. My whole family knows. Everyone's got a ghost story from this house. My dad is one of nine children. Every single one of them and their spouses have a ghost story or supernatural story about the house. I have 40-plus cousins, and every single one of them has at least one, if not more, stories of ghostly happenings.

Chelle: I have a ghost story about this house.

Laylla: Anyone who spends any amount of time in this house will have a paranormal story to tell after they've left. You just need a few hours. Chelle spent the night. So, so this house was built in 1920. It's in Seneca Falls, New York. Kind of right near the uh Women's Rights Memorial Park. When I was a kid, it had been a church, and then it was a laundromat, ironically enough. And I remember And then the other half of the uh Memorial Park is now um open green space, and that used to be a movie theater there. So, I would kind of cut through the laundromat and the alley behind the laundromat to get to the movie theater. But that's now the Women's Rights Memorial Park. That kind of gives you a a place right near there in Seneca Falls, New York. House was built in 1920, and my family moved in. My grandparents had a couple young children. They were pregnant with their third child, and it was in the in the late '40s, I believe. And they found this house in Seneca Falls, super cheap, super cheap. And as they were looking at the house, the the couple that owned it told them part of the reason why it was so cheap, they're telling them the story of the family before them that had owned it. And the story goes that the couple before them had purchased the house in the early '40s. And young couple, wanted to start a family. The husband worked, wife stayed home. Husband comes home from work one day early, unexpectedly, and he's walking up the staircase. Now, this staircase in this house has been replaced six times that I can think of.

Tom: Hm.

Laylla: Which is a little unusual for any house.

Tom: Little bit.

Laylla: You know? So, he's walking up the the original staircase, and as you walk up the stairs, you go again into kind of a great room, and there's three bedrooms that come off that great room. One of those bedrooms has a door that faces directly the stairs. So, as you come up the stairs, he's he's treated to an ever-increasing view of his wife and the neighbor guy having a good time in the guest bed.

Tom: Oh, no.

Laylla: Yeah. So, he doesn't say a thing. Doesn't say a word. Goes back downstairs, goes to the back room, and gets his hunting rifle. And brings it upstairs and proceeds to kill his wife and the neighbor. Then he goes to the garage and gets a length of rope and hangs himself in the stairwell. And this couple's telling my grandparents this as they're thinking about buying the house. My grandparents are like, "Why did you buy this house then?" and like, "Well, it stood empty for a long time. It was very, very cheap. So, we bought it, replaced the staircase," so staircase number two, "replaced the staircase, redid the bedrooms, and we had a great deal, and and, you know, things have been a little weird, but it's been good." They wouldn't go into elaborate, supposedly.

Laylla: Mm.

Chelle: My grandparents were like, "Okay, fine, we'll buy the house." So they buy the house and proceed to raise nine children in the house. And again, every single one of them has stories of things turning off and on that shouldn't, furniture being moved when no one's in the room, seeing ghostly figures. In particular, someone in the stairwell, sometimes seen as just a dark mass or a dark figure hanging in the stairwell, and a young woman, who particularly the younger children would see the young woman, and an older woman. And those are different stories. So, when I was in my early 20s, I was kind of in and out of college and in and out of jobs, didn't really have anywhere to go, and my dad offered for me to stay at this house. He and my grandfather lived there, but neither of them were ever there. They were both kind of off staying at other places. So I figured this is a good deal, I'll go stay there. So I'm staying in not the bedroom that faces the stairs, but one of the back bedrooms. And one of my friends decides that she's going to stay with me all the time. She doesn't exactly live there, but she's never really gone either. We're hanging out one night, nobody's home, it's summertime. So this friend's basically living with me, right? And she knows all the stories. And as everyone does as we go there, we get out my grandmother's Ouija board, and we hop up on the bed, and we decide we're going to do the Ouija board and see if we can contact any of the spirits in the house.

Laylla: Why do people think that's a good idea? It's never a good idea.

Chelle: We thought it was a great idea.

Laylla: Yeah, so did we the time you and I hung out at your dad's house. Also not a good idea.

Chelle: Oh yeah, and that turned out scary, too.

Laylla: Right.

Chelle: So I'm a baby witch, I think everything's going to be just fine. So we're sitting on the bed, we got the Ouija board out, we're smoking some pot, nothing happens. Nothing moves. I'm like, "All right, well, let's try again," you know? So we set the mood. We light some incense, we light some candles, we smoke more pot. Nothing happens. It's getting later, I'm fucking bored, it is hot as hell in that room. Again, summertime, New York, no air conditioning, super hot and stuffy. So my idea is, let's go out to the back porch and sit on the porch, get a nice cool breeze, we'll get high out there, look at the stars and chill. Friend is like, "All right, let's go do that." So we get up off the bed, we're getting our weed, we're getting our shoes, and we hear something fall. And look over, and the planchette has fallen off the bed onto the floor. And I'm thinking, "That's weird. I'd swear they were in the middle of the bed." But must have moved it when we got up. And friend is like, "Ooh, the spirits want us to talk to it again." And I'm like, "Oh, haha, right." So we sit down, we decide we're going to ask it questions again. So, again, sit down in the middle of the bed, put our fingers on the planchette. This time, it wants to move. And I'm thinking, "Okay, she thinks this is funny, right?" So I'm like, "Okay, hi, what's your name?" And it shoots over to "no." All right, haha, funny, funny. So I'm like, "Okay, you don't want to talk to us, don't want to tell us your name, that's fine. How old are you?" And it shoots over to "no." So now I'm getting a little more pissed because it's moving really strongly under my fingertips, right? I know she's got to be pushing it. And I'm I'm just like, "You know, this is dumb. If you're going to push it, at least make it funny or scary or something. This is just dumb."

Laylla: "Stop fucking with me," kind of.

Chelle: Right? So I'm like, "All right, whatever." So this is just stupid. Let's just go outside. And I throw the planchette, I grab the planchette and I kind of toss it at my friend. I'm like, "Haha, let's go outside. Let's just go smoke, this is stupid." And she's like, "Okay, no problem." Sets the planchette down, we both get up. Again, we're getting ready to go. And this time, we hear a door downstairs slam. Hard enough, you know when you slam a door in a small house and the windows kind of rattle? It did that. There's only three doors downstairs. There's the front door, which was locked. We're 220-somethings alone, we locked all the doors. There's back door, locked. And then there's the bathroom door, which is shitty and sticks and barely even fucking closes, you can't slam it. So I don't even know what door slammed. So we're all like, "That's really creepy and weird." And we're like, "I think we should maybe we should go check." We're kind of psyching each other up like, "Okay, we'll go check." So we go out into this great room. It's got one of those pull lights in the middle of the room. And we're on the far side, and and we've got to kind of go to the pull light in the middle, and then the stairwell is on the other side of the room. Only, it's really pitch black over by the stairwell. Darker than it should be. There's a window near us, and the moonlight's coming in, but it almost seems like it stops halfway. And it just literally seems too black on the other side. And it almost seems like it's moving. And I'm thinking, "I've smoked way too much fucking pot." So I'm kind of inching forward, all creeped out, and I pull the cord to turn on the light, and the cord comes off in my hand. And I'm sure there's no fucking way I'm reaching up there to get this cord. And I'm like, "I think it's gotten even darker over there. I'm pretty sure it's even blacker." Now, at this time, my dad has taken out the staircase, again, and has replaced it with a wrought iron spiral staircase. It's not safe to walk on even when you can fucking see. I'm not going to go down it in the pitch black. There's no way. Plus, that's kind of creepy black. So I'm thinking, "You know what? I'm too stoned. I'm going to have my friend lead. Obviously, I'm seeing things. She probably can see just fine." So I turn to look at her to follow her down the stairs, and she is staring wide-eyed, mouth open at the stairwell. And she looks at me and she says, "Do you fucking see that? Why is it so dark over there?" And I'm like, "Oh, fuck no. Nope, nope, nope, nope." And I push her back into the room, shut the door behind us and I lock it. I'm like, "No. No, there's no way. There's no way. Shut the door, lock it, turn around." Friend is now standing in the middle of the room staring at the floor next to the bed. And I'm like, "Oh, fuck, what now?" And I look over, and the Ouija board's on the floor, and the planchette is on "no." And we had left it in the middle of the bed. I knew for a fucking fact we had left it in the middle of the bed. At this point, I'm losing my shit. I'm like, "You know what? I have never done a fucking room cleansing, banishing, and sealing in my entire goddamn life." We threw everything we had, sat in the corner with our sage and our salt and our crystals, smoking pot all night long. We're like, "I am not leaving this room ever." The sun finally comes up, we stretch, we're like, "Okay, obviously we smoked a little too much, we psyched ourselves out. That was dumb. Open the door, everything's fine." The house is full of sunlight. Go downstairs. We are like half giggling, half kind of scared still, joking with each other like, "Oh, haha, that was so stupid." We make some coffee. And we're like, "All right, well, let's go on the back porch." My dad had a whole garden in the back, right? Lots of tomato plants, some other plants. It was fenced in, kind of really private in the back. The porch I wanted to go to. So we get our coffee, we go to the back porch, we sit down. We're kind of joking with each other still, and I notice that some of the plants are trampled. So I go over, and there's a there's a tree on the one side next to the fence on the off side of the garden. And right near that tree, a bunch of like three, four plants are trampled. Like, "What the fuck? Did a raccoon or a dog or something get in here?" But there's boot prints in the dirt. And next to the tree, there were some cigarette butts. Where those cigarette butts, when you looked up, you could see my bedroom window, and you wouldn't be seen. I don't know what the fuck was going on that night, but I'm glad we didn't leave the bedroom.

Laylla: Yeah.

Guest: I do know that, you know, I was not that particular friend, thank God, because I know that friend. Didn't like that friend. But I know, um, one time I stayed at that house, and I believe I ended up sleeping, well, we'll call it that, on the first floor, maybe the first floor in a back bedroom. I was in a back bedroom at the back of the house.

Chelle: Yes, that's where the rifle was kept in this supposed murder-suicide story.

Guest: I joke and I say, "Oh yeah, I slept at Laylla's dad's house." I did not sleep at Laylla's dad's house. I laid in bed frightened for my life all night until dawn at Laylla's dad's house. Sleep, no. There's something there that is angry and mean, and it wants to take it out on everybody there. And I did not like being there. I remember being up in that second floor big room, great room, getting really high with your dad. And the higher I got, it was almost like the more scared I got to be up on the second floor. That is That is the most oppressive house that I have attempted to sleep in, because it was Whatever's there wouldn't let me sleep. I almost felt like laying in bed that there was just something above me just kind of like growly and, "You ain't fucking sleeping, you fucking bitch," like kind of like that attitude. And I just It was fun to hang out with your dad and we had a good time, but it is not a place that you are going to get any sleep at.

Tom: Like a spider.

Chelle: Yeah. And and much like your house, Tom, it has both good and bad, I think. Like I As scary as that situation was for me, looking on it, I almost feel like it was just trying to keep me from going out back. I feel like it was just trying to keep me from leaving the house.

Guest: Whereas I felt threatened at your dad's house. I was scared.

Chelle: People have had both experiences. There are both kinds that happen there. Now, I've done digging. When I was younger, I tried to find, you know, if there's any history of a murder-suicide there, and I couldn't find anything then. And I figured now I have more tools at my disposal, I would try again. And so I did look, and I did find, um, that there were murder gun murder shotgun murder and hanging suicide right around the time period in the '40s. I found it in the county coroner's reports for Seneca Falls, but I couldn't find any news articles or anything, and I would think that double murder-suicide would be big news.

Tom: In that period of time.

Chelle: Right. And so I don't know, but everyone in my family knew that story. Some of the neighbors knew the story. I mean, it was common urban legend. Now, my father is a well-known teller of tales. He does have a book published. He does have some poems and short stories published, and he's known to spin a yarn. So could he have heard something and embellished it, and then other people heard it and picked up on it? Maybe. Uh, but he was a kid when this story started, so I don't know. I did also find, now this is fun, I did find a true tale, a true news news tale back in 1896, um, before that part of Seneca Falls was built. So 1896, I found a newspaper article titled, "Killed a Woman and Himself." So a man named Thomas Pelton was apparently pissed off because Minnie Mansell had scorned him, and she had said, "No, don't want you around." He then went and killed her, and then killed himself at a place, uh, Edward Minders' farm, the Minders' farm. And both were in the employ of Mrs. Minders from that farm. And the newspaper article says, quote, "He was infatuated with her, but she gave him no encouragement. He threatened a few days ago that he would kill her." Now, two fun coincidences. The Minders' farm is where my house was built on Minders Street.

Tom: Mm.

Chelle: And this article that I found, I was researching just recently, and I looked at the date. The date was March 16th, 1896. Guess what day I found it?

Laylla: That's right, because you texted me and you were like, "Oh my god, this was today." And I was like, "Whoa, no shit."

Chelle: March 16th. So, something very similar did happen in that area, and I can find some hints that maybe what had supposedly happened in the house could be true, but no definitive proof. But some interesting coincidences.

Tom: Now, the question is, how do you take someone with a really scientific mind frame and explain that to them in a way that will satisfy their rigors rigorous demands for reality? Because I have never figured that out.

Chelle: You can't.

Guest: You can't.

Tom: No.

Chelle: You can't. I like to think I have a little bit of a scientist mindset. I I like to, too. And I can't explain that, and I think that's why I like these stories, why why Laylla and I like talking about them, because I don't know what happened. Could I have knocked that off? Yes. Could my friend have been pushing it? Yes.

Guest: But I've also had my own experience at a completely different time in that house, which makes me believe that not only is what I experienced some crazy shit, but that everything Laylla experienced before and after absolutely happened, because having my own experience there makes me not doubt any of her experiences there, you know what I mean?

Tom: Yes. Yes.

Chelle: And that's what I think is interesting about all of our stories, is the components that are so similar and happened in different parts of Grandall and kind of the East Coast, but happened in different cities, happened at different times, but there's so many similarities.

Tom: Mhm.

Chelle: And you and your sister had the same experiences. People that go to that house in Seneca Falls all have very, very similar experiences. So many people, your family, so many people in that place, it How do you explain that?

Guest: You know what, you can't just explain it off that one person's nuts, you know? We can't say, "Well, Tom's nuts." Tom's not nuts, because Tom has a sister who has similar stories, you know what I mean? I mean, once you start having multiple people have these experiences, you can't just negate them as easily anymore.

Tom: Oh yeah, and it and it wasn't just my sister, you know, my mom, I had friends, my sister had friends, family members, just, you know, it was an ongoing kind of thing where where people would be like, "Yeah, I saw something weird upstairs." You know, I don't know what the hell it was. That was kind of freak me out. I I kind of don't want to hang out here anymore, you know, like.

Guest: Science or not, it's just hard to It's hard to kind of blow it off when so many people are having so many experiences, you know what I mean?

Tom: There is There is a cult of science that is very, very present in the world where, um, I want to be careful how I say this because I don't want to come off as a complete wacky- whack job, but we can we can lay things at science's feet for testing, but not everything is appropriate to be tested under those rigors.

Guest: I get what you're saying. Absolutely. I feel you.

Tom: And and people say, "Well, you can't." And I say, "You can, that's what magic systems exist for." The problem with magic systems is that they deal with the infinite, and you can't account for the infinite in math, so you're never ever going to crack the code. No matter how hard you try, no matter how much you want to quantify this, you can't. And that's going to drive you fucking crazy. And it's the reason that we're not exploring the stars right now, honestly.

Chelle: It's the reason why we need art, why we need philosophy, why we need music, because all of those are forms of magic. And it's it's I know they can be quantified. Music, obviously, has a lot of parallels to math, but.

Guest: That's why we need Eminem.

Chelle: Yes, it is. We do. We need all different kinds. It's true. We need all of that. And and I I do have a very mathematical brain. I like things to fit into a pattern. I like things to make sense. I like to be able to find the whys and the reasons. And I guess that's maybe also why I'm so interested in the things that don't seem to fit, you know? They're fun.

Tom: Yeah.

Chelle: I like the anomalies.

Tom: I don't consider myself to be superstitious or like I'm very skeptical, but felt experience can't be denied. Um, just because it can't properly be quantified does not mean that it doesn't exist. You know, what's that Okay, so we all know, uh, when you first hold your child for the first time, there is a release of oxytocin.

Chelle: Mhm.

Tom: That bonds you to that child for life. Okay, so that first few moments after the child is born, it is critical for mom and mom and baby to have touch and contact, right?

Chelle: Skin-to-skin bonding.

Tom: Right. Now, now, that doesn't describe anything about how it feels. And no language that does is quantifiable. "Oh, on a scale of 1 to 10, how happy are you?" Totally subjective. There is no way to measure it. There's no little ruler that you can go, "Oh, they're a 5.1. Okay, good." So, you know, and can you see that, too? "Oh, no, I can't repeat it." You know why? Because it's totally subjective. It It exists in a realm of abstracts, and we don't know how to deal with that scientifically, and we have built up this cult of materialism in the West that is very, you know, very much an alter ego, actually. Uh, you know, it's it's the it's the, "Buy it now, don't wait, order today, you might have these side effects." That whole sweep of society that we're looking at with all consumerism.

Guest: Pay for prime and you'll get it in three days.

Tom: Exactly. All the culture, all the bullshit that's that's swarming around us constantly, making us forget what we really are, probably by design to some degree. Yeah, that, you know, they want you to forget about that. They want you to forget that that that that shit's going on. So.

Chelle: Maybe that's why you like McKenna so much. Wasn't he all about that, like letting go of that materialism and basically go out and touch grass personified?

Tom: Yeah, yeah. He was He was very much a hippie.

Chelle: Yeah.

Tom: And and and, you know, you have to when you listen to people like that, you know, you have to then ask yourself, like, when is the last time I stood barefoot in the grass?

Guest: It's almost feet on the grass time.

Chelle: Right? I love spring for that. I liked your analogy with the magic of holding your child and being able to describe it in scientific terms. It's something that I do with the moon. Like, I love the moon. The moon is so was just the full moon last night. I danced under it. Yeah. You know, it's very, very magical to me. And just because I know that it's the light of the sun, I know why eclipses happen, I I know the science behind it, but that doesn't make it any less magical. It It almost makes it more magical to me, understanding it and then standing underneath it and still feeling that rush of emotion, that rush of happiness and joy, just seeing all that, you know, moonlight shimmering on everything. It's.

Tom: Well, yeah, it's built into the human consciousness on such a deep level. It's so primordial. And and the energy that that you're experiencing, you know, what you're seeing is is like a model of a bigger system. So, what you're seeing on this level is happening on a sub-level and on a on a higher level in a similar fashion. So, the exchange of energy, the way everything's shining, and it's kind of like this little box, right? That just has thousands and thousands of lenses and mirrors in it. And if you move one, everything changes because the way the lights interact changes the whole show, like a big hologram. And that's our universe in a nutshell, in my opinion. It's a It's a big mirror show. We're all being We're all being shown the same image from different angles, perspectives, and and under different lights. And and we're all seeing the same thing. And the beauty of it is that all of us are kind of like the same person just looking at it through all those different lenses in different time periods.

Laylla: All trying to experience the same thing.

Tom: Yeah. With one It's one consciousness trying to like see itself subjectively. Because how can you look in the mirror if you are the mirror? There has to be a me and a not me in order to perceive. So, we have to You know what I mean? So, that's why we exist, in my opinion. We We're like We're like education for the Godhead. And being able to actively take a part in the creative process involved in that is is so overwhelmingly cool and powerful and enabling. And I mean, there's so many ways to do it. And some of them are very ritualistic-based, and some of them are as simple as going and taking a walk in nature.

Chelle: They're all paths to the on the same mountain to the same top, just a different path to get there.

Tom: Yep. And and you choose What you get, you put into is what you get out of it. So, the more intent you put into it, and the more I think with intent comes effort.

Chelle: Yes.

Tom: Because at the end of stuff that I've done, like rituals I've done, I've felt fucking exhausted. Like pouring sweat, you know, just like, "I am done."

Chelle: Yeah. Oh, absolutely. Well, it's like taking a major test. It It's the same type of energy expenditure as taking a big test. You're You're working. It's mental work, but it's still work.

Tom: Mhm. Mhm. I think there's an emotional element to it as well. Like, an emotional component that you're tapping from everything, I guess.

Chelle: So, the best magic is the most exhausting magic.

Laylla: We have to kind of raise that energy and and getting your emotions involved and and getting the getting your, you know, your endorphins going, getting everything in your body moving towards a purpose and trying to direct that energy to something. You need to involve emotions. You need to involve thought. You need to to kind of get and it involves a lot of pushing, a lot of energy work, and and that's going to manifest itself in being tired and being sweaty, as if you've run a marathon or taken the SATs.

Tom: Yeah. What was I going to say?

Chelle: No, but we should probably get close to wrapping up.

Tom: Probably. Yeah.

Chelle: And I know we could keep going, but yeah.

Chelle: So, we've we've we've talked a lot about science and weed and ghosts and weird family home experiences. I loved today's show. I I think that that, Tom, you're awesome. We loved having you here. You better get back here again sometime.

Tom: I will.

Chelle: We uh we definitely are are are looking forward to coming back to to your show. Um again, Storytime with Tom and Mike. Anything you want to tell us and tell folks out there about you guys's show? Plug your show for a minute before we wrap up.

Tom: Okay. If I can get my voice back.

Chelle: When you come on our show, you smoke too much weed. That's the problem.

Tom: Yeah. Yeah. Uh I smoke too much weed anyway. Um so, Storytime with Tom and Mike, uh just to give you sort of like the elevator pitch, is a show in which two best friends make each other laugh and entertain each other and and you with stupid theories and sketches and news of the week items and just general conversation on all those on all those topics. Occasionally, we stray into political or, well, dicks, yes. That comes up quite a bit, actually. Uh urethral sounding is a very common element. I I love I love to complain about Joe Rogan um because I intensely hate that man. And uh yeah, and it's just a lot of fun. Um give it a chance, please. My life would be so much better if I could do this for a living, so, you know. Hopefully, you can get past the the um I don't know. I don't know how I feel about my theme song.

Chelle: I think it's great. It reminds me of like this awesome like '80s TV show. It definitely gives me that retro '80s vibe, and I love it. I love it.

Tom: Yeah. Yeah.

Chelle: We're glad to have Tom here today. Definitely, to all of our friends, all of our listeners, our people, check out Storytime with Tom and Mike. Laylla and I will be guesting on their show on March 25th. What episode was that? 139?

Tom: Yes, 139.

Chelle: The Guacamole Debacle.

Tom: Yes.

Chelle: Listen, people, because I I explain why I think guacamole is the secretion of the devil. Um so, check that out. I do. I do. So, check that out. We are I don't know what we're doing next. I haven't thought that far ahead. I I smoke too much to plan for the next show.

Laylla: That's okay. Our next show is going to be probably a surprise for us and everyone else. How's that?

Chelle: Surprise! So, if you liked today's show, please like, rate us, give us five stars. Head over to Storytime with Tom and Mike. Show them a little bit of love. Instagram, @stonedwitcheshour.

Laylla: And then Twitter is @stonedwitches. And then you can email us at thestonedwitcheshour@gmail.com. Send us your story ideas. Send us your comments. Send us your weed. Send us your weed suggestions, and we'll see you next time on The Stoned Witches Hour.

Chelle: I just want to I just want to give a I just want to give a shout-out to our our guy, Silicone Pipe Dan, was it? Silicone Pipe Dan.

Laylla: Shout-out to Silicone Pipe Dan and to Lee Ann, our coolest, most devoted listener from Binghamton, New York. We appreciate you guys. And uh the next bud's for you.

Chelle: If If you're If you're going to do a quick shout-out, I have to mention Slick Ricky in Canada, um my my gaming buddy. Love you, Ricky. And and Phoenix, she's my homegirl. Love you.

Laylla: Thanks for listening to The Stoned Witches Hour with Chelle and Laylla. If you like what you heard, please rate us and consider giving us a review. It really helps the show out, and we'll definitely take a toke of the kindest bud in your honor.
