Speaker 1: It's witchcraft. It's 4:20 a.m. Hi and welcome to episode 18 of The Stoned Witch is Our, where Lela and Chelle, two best friends on opposite coasts of the USA. And each week we get together to smoke weed and scare each other silly with stories of haunted happenings, ghoulish events, and terrifying true crime. I'm Lela, representing the West Coast.

Speaker 2: I'm high as usual, and Chelle and from the East Coast.

Speaker 1: Hi my high friend. How are you today?

Speaker 2: Today, I am back to I got a new batch of Jasmine Silver Haze.

Speaker 1: How is that smoking? How does that Jasmine Silver Haze taste?

Speaker 2: Delicious, delicious. Now, you told me once that it was harder to grow. Is that correct?

Speaker 1: Sativas yes are typically harder to grow, yes. On the whole.

Speaker 2: But this very tasty not flowery, but not fruity, but not citrusy, kind of like everything good all wrapped up into one.

Speaker 1: Damn, why can't you mail me some of that? I love a good tasting weed. I don't even care what the THC percentage is. If it's got a nice taste to it, I love that.

Speaker 2: And it's it's a very smooth smoke too, which you know sometimes there's like that cough to get off kind of smoke. This is more like that smooth

Speaker 1: Silky.

Speaker 2: Yeah.

Speaker 1: Goes down real nice. Oh, I love those. I love those. I do tend to prefer generally hybrids, but Sativas are so good, so good usually. And and the Silver Haze is I really like personally.

Speaker 2: Yeah. Yeah. This Jasmine Silver Haze top notch, good stuff.

Speaker 1: Nice.

Speaker 2: Good stuff. I wonder if the Jasmine is what gives it that like all around flavor.

Speaker 1: Possibly. I I'm not familiar with that particular cultivar, but I am familiar with the the Hazes and the Silver Hazes, and they do tend to have a nice flavor. Um, but Jasmine sounds like it should taste good.

Speaker 2: Oh, it does. It does. You'll You'll You'll have to come visit and have some cuz it's good stuff.

Speaker 1: Oh my gosh, yes. For sure. When you come out here, I'm going to have a charcuterie board of buds for you to try. And I fully expect the same when I come visit you in Salem. We're going to just have a sampler platter of a little bit of everything and try it all.

Speaker 2: Exactly. Exactly. Exactly. But yeah, no very it's it's very good and and I'm actually still working off my eight eighths for 288 deal. Like that was such the greatest deal ever on the planet.

Speaker 1: That is a nice deal. That is a nice deal.

Speaker 2: Quality stuff, and that's the best part. It's not just like junk weed on sale. Quality stuff.

Speaker 1: Yeah, I just got um I did get a batch from the gas station, my favorite delivery guys. I did get a batch of super cheap um midi. It was just a whole bunch of mixed mids they called it. So it's just a bunch mixed mid range, mid quality cannabis.

Speaker 2: Midies. When was the last time we said midies?

Speaker 1: Midies. Right. Well, now everything has a name, so we don't have to like we don't have to call it dirt weed or you know midies or

Speaker 2: Hydro.

Speaker 1: Or hydro. Or dank. You know we we don't have to call it dirt midies or dank anymore. Everything has a name we can call it what its actual name is. So you don't hear that so much, but I guess they just had a bunch of uh buds left over that they just kind of dumped in one big pot and so they were selling it very cheap. So it was uh midies for 50 for a half. So we got some of that. Yeah, nice a really nice deal and it's a it's a good quality smoke. So you know a nice daytime just want to get through the work day kind of smoke. Good solid high.

Speaker 2: Ooh. Ooh. Did we Did we used to call that a salad?

Speaker 1: Yes, yes we did when we would kind of dump what was left of all our little bags in a jar and then when you were out that was the go to jar. Yeah, there was the mixed salad. That always got me high as fuck.

Speaker 2: It was a salad. High as anything else.

Speaker 1: Higher than anything else. And I'm smoking in that. I am also smoking on a freshly cured batch of homegrown, my Gorilla Cookies, my Auto Flower Gorilla Cookies, and those are fabulous. So so good. Now, it says that they have 27% THC in the description, and I have not gotten mine tested. I would honestly say it's probably higher. I can't smoke these. I'm going to smoke a little bit while we're recording, but then the rest is going to go back to my mixed midi because it

Speaker 2: How do you test it? How can you you as Lela growing at your house, homegrown

Speaker 1: because it

Speaker 2: sitting in your in your living room, how do you test the percentage?

Speaker 1: I know that there are places that you can send your weed to. It does cost. Um, it's usually not something that I am going to want. I don't know what the cost is to be honest. I'd have to look it up, but I know you can send it to different places here. Um, and I do think that there are some some kits that you can get to to test it at home. They're around 100 bucks, 50 to 100 bucks each. I don't know how accurate they are. It's actually so that might be something that I would be interested in trying. I might grab a couple different kits and maybe check into a dispensary and see if I could

Speaker 2: Oh wow.

Speaker 1: have it uh tested. But just from my experience, I would say that it feels like it's a higher it it kicks me right between the eyes kind of like a 34 percent 32 34 percent THC, you know, that I get from a dispensary would. So the description says it's about 27 percent THC, and I would have to say it's probably it feels like it's higher. So that's more of my nighttime really want to relax, chill out kind of weed.

Speaker 2: Melt into your bed.

Speaker 1: Melt into the bed. And it tastes so good, though it's hard not to reach for it in the middle of the day cuz you know my mixed midies are nice. They taste great. It's fine, but it's no nothing to write home about, but you know these Gorilla Cookies so delicious. Me personally, my head is racing, my mind goes a million miles a minute, and my body's just kind of more like normal to lazy. So when I look for a weed, I kind of want to balance that out, particularly during the daytime. I want something that's going to slow my brain down so that I can focus and get work done and not be constantly thinking about 10 bajillion oh squirrel kind of thing.

Speaker 2: Right.

Speaker 1: And I want something to keep my body energized, but not too buzzy and not too relaxed. You know, so I want something to kind of balance me out. And this this is one of those weeds that does a great job of that.

Speaker 2: Nice.

Speaker 1: So yeah. Who wouldn't want that for a daytime smoke, you know, just kind of focus, feel good, feel happy, and not be pinging from thing to thing.

Speaker 2: Yeah, yeah. So I am good. I'm I am smoking the good stuff today, you know, as usual. Just Just living the dream here. I'm waiting for for a little bit warmer weather, but you know you you take what you can get at this time of year. It is beginning of May in the Northeast, and you know how the beginning of May can be. It can be like 41 day and 75 the next day, and my allergies are exploding, folks.

Speaker 1: It's It's kind of like that over here. It's 73 one day and 86 the next. It's just

Speaker 2: Oh, for you. Shush yourself.

Speaker 1: Blue skies all the time. I love it. Okay, there was one or two clouds in the sky yesterday, so I can definitely tell spring is here. It's so great.

Speaker 2: You know, I'm laughing because you know you you you're from the Northeast. You know what I'm dealing with weather wise here in in the beginning of May. Like it's treacherous. So I'm at the store. And And I do this to my boyfriend all the time. Do you know that all winter long they've had a big display of bathing suits, and I walk into this particular store and I'm like, hey, need a bathing suit? Why? Why? It is cold. I have a Carhartt sweatshirt on. I have socks in a in a foot heater on, and you've got a bathing suit display in the Northeast in the beginning of May. Why are they evil?

Speaker 1: That's never made sense to me.

Speaker 2: Evil, evil I say. They're taunting me.

Speaker 1: That didn't make sense until I moved here because I do want a bathing suit right now. I Everything kind of made

Speaker 2: Well, come here because there's a store that has like a whole freaking display.

Speaker 1: Yeah, that in the Northeast that never made sense, especially because in the first week of May, you could have your heater running in the morning and then need to open your windows and possibly turn on your air conditioner in the afternoon. You didn't get it all.

Speaker 2: Yeah. Yeah. And that, you know, and and unfortunately, as fun as that can be it creates an allergy explosion. So if I'm sounding stuffy and allergy ridden, it it it I am. I am. Like we have a white car and it's turning yellow as we speak.

Speaker 1: 'Tis the season.

Speaker 2: Everybody talks about this dry heat. Where is it? Cuz it is sure as hell is not in Massachusetts.

Speaker 1: No, it's out here in the desert. Right here. I love it. No, so it is gorgeous here and I am loving it. So first week of May, got to love it. We just had Beltaine. This is a fabulous time of year for pretty much all of the United States, I think for the most part. We're all happy to get out of the dark and and start enjoying the outdoors and enjoying nature a little more.

Speaker 2: Oh. You know, this is the time of year where you know you we we just did our Beltaine episode. Beltaine just passed and you know we all we talked about how we always camped for Beltaine. This is one of those years where I would have been one of those camping for Beltaine absolutely first week of May and I'm like, all right guys, how about we wait another like couple of weeks. Let's wait Let's wait another couple of weeks before we go camping again.

Speaker 1: This has also been a pretty historic week just just not too long ago for another reason. Another state has started legal marijuana sales, New Jersey on the 21st, which is so dumb. Why didn't they do it on 4/20? But the day after 4/20, New Jersey rolled out legal marijuana and uh had booming sales from what I heard.

Speaker 2: You know, they probably just didn't want some like like I could see the government's mind working here. They're like, oh my god, if we do this on 4/20, there's going to be like some like mass explosion of people. They were like probably thinking riots and stuff when all these stoners are just like, dude, why couldn't you have done this yesterday?

Speaker 1: I don't think they were prepared for how calm and orderly a stoner line could be.

Speaker 2: I don't think they I don't think they get the fact that there was a like what did they think? I-95 is just going to be shut down due to traffic? What's happening?

Speaker 1: Maybe. Maybe they thought if they did it on 4/20, the universe would just implode and Yeah, so they did it on 4/21, so good for them for for actually starting the legal sales.

Speaker 2: Probably. Probably.

Speaker 1: So they do not have home grows available in New Jersey, which is a big thumbs down. Boo New Jersey. Home grows should be part of any legalization uh package, and I I frown frown upon them.

Speaker 2: No. I think I know why they don't have home grows in in New Jersey, and that kind of is going to lead me into what my story for today is.

Speaker 1: Ooh.

Speaker 2: I'm pretty sure that the reason that they don't allow home grows in New Jersey is because of the Jersey Devil.

Speaker 1: Wait, what? Is the Jersey Devil like a cop or something? Like what's the Jersey Devil?

Speaker 2: The Jersey Devil, like this is like

Speaker 1: Wait, you just mentioned the Jersey Devil before. How did you hold on?

Speaker 2: I have it. I can't for the life of me believe that you don't even know what the Jersey Devil is. Like that baffles my mind.

Speaker 1: Okay, I I do remember now that you have mentioned the Jersey Devil to me and promised to tell me what it is. So and how does it How do they prevent people from growing weed?

Speaker 2: Well because you don't want to be outside and come across this mofo. Like bad news. Like this is where you don't want to be out tending to your plants after dark and run into the sky.

Speaker 1: Oh, okay. Is this another one of those lantern fish? We put the orbs out so we can steal your soul like in our last episode?

Speaker 2: This is a cryptid, absolutely.

Speaker 1: Oh, another evil cryptid.

Speaker 2: Yep. In in episode 17 we talked about the puckwudgies of Massachusetts.

Speaker 1: Mhm. Yeah, they corrupted my beloved orbs and used them to lure people to their death.

Speaker 2: Yeah, well the Jersey Devil ain't much better.

Speaker 1: Oh no. Oh figures.

Speaker 2: It It really isn't. And we're not talking about the hockey team here, folks. The Jersey Devils bad, just as bad as the Jersey Devil itself. No, I'm just kidding. Love hockey. Not so much the Jersey Devils. Go Rangers. Um, so anyhow, the Jersey Devil

Speaker 1: Okay, again just to be clear for my stoned brain, the Jersey Devil the cryptid, not the Jersey Devil the hockey team.

Speaker 2: Correct, cryptid. We're going down the cryptid route.

Speaker 1: Cryptid. All right. Cryptid. Okay.

Speaker 2: There is a a forest in South Jersey called Pine Barrens, and this is kind of where this this Jersey Devil has originated from. The origin of the legend is that there was a resident named Jane Leads, known as Mother Leads. We're talking a couple hundred years ago. This was obviously not something recent. You know, she was you know we we talked about Beltaine, talked about someone in the Beltaine spirit. So she had 12 kids.

Speaker 1: Oh, nice. So she kept the Beltaine spirit in her heart constantly.

Speaker 2: Right, right. She kept it in her heart constantly.

Speaker 1: That's what they call it now. I'm sure that's not everywhere she kept it.

Speaker 2: Imagine having 12 kids. Like I only got two eyes and two hands, man.

Speaker 1: I would not like to imagine that. Thank you.

Speaker 2: Mother Leads and is finding out she's pregnant for the 13th time.

Speaker 1: Oh, the 13th child. Oh, always a good well, I guess that wasn't always a good omen.

Speaker 2: Right, not in this story, not in this story. So she's pissed cuz she's pregnant again. So she cursed the child in a fit of rage and frustration.

Speaker 1: Oh yeah, because it's the kids' fault and not the dude who didn't wrap it.

Speaker 2: Right, you know you you're still getting booty on the regular, but you're pissed at the kid and go curse it. But she did. And her curse and frustration was her crying that the child would be the devil.

Speaker 1: Ridiculous. She should have gone to see the local witch and been like, hey, you know. But you know they had probably burned the local witch at the stake the summer before, so you know poor Mother Leads was shit out of luck. Anyway,

Speaker 2: Pretty much. So you know, of course I you know I wasn't there. I wasn't around in 1735, but the story goes that you know on a dark and stormy night um she goes into labor. Back then, you know a lot of the town's women or your your your your closest female relatives or what have you are there. They're helping they gather around. So this 13 child is born, and the minute it comes out, it's normal. But then it starts changing and its feet turn into hooves. It has like what they they can't tell if it 's a goat head or a horse head. It begins get growing bat wings and ends up growing a forked tail. The child starts growling and screaming.

Speaker 1: That sounds awful.

Speaker 2: It flew up the chimney and headed into the pines.

Speaker 1: So the poor baby was born normal, but because of the curse it like transformed into like this horrible disfigured thing and flew out the chimney.

Speaker 2: Now, some people say that Mother Leads was supposedly a witch and that the child's father was actually the devil himself.

Speaker 1: As one does.

Speaker 2: And some say that there was a clergyman that tried to exorcise the creature from Pine Barren. But basically this 13th child turned into like what they considered like this devil creature.

Speaker 1: Wow. So it flew out the chimney and went to the woods in the Pine Barrens.

Speaker 2: Went into the Pine Barrens and it's just kind of been there. Again 1735. So you know years go by. People seem to see this thing, encounter this thing. It supposedly will kill you again like the puckwudgie, take your soul, eat your soul that whole bit.

Speaker 1: No shit. So like if you see it in the Pine Barrens, it's going to like kill you and eat your soul?

Speaker 2: It's not a good thing to see the Jersey Devil.

Speaker 1: No, it doesn't sound like it.

Speaker 2: A lot of people in in in the legends in the stories um the ghost stories and such actually describe it as a monster.

Speaker 1: Horse head, bat wings, goat hooves. Well, it sounds like it's a monster.

Speaker 2: Yeah. Now, you can actually find it listed not just the Jersey Devil, but you can find it listed as the Leads Devil or the Devil of Leads named after the family ultimately.

Speaker 1: Unpleasant. His family name how cute. He kept the family name, okay. So people had encounters with this thing?

Speaker 2: Yeah, there there was encounters all through the late 1700s um all through the 1800s and actually they're they're you know early 1900s, but there has been a group recently um as recently as 2013 that had gone down there again kind of like a local paranormal cryptid searchy group. And you know you you you hear of these these people that have these encounters and you know I I watched some of these like quote unquote interview videos and I believe these people that they saw it. That just look looking at them talk and listening to them describe what they saw like you believe them.

Speaker 1: So they're very convincing. They they definitely you can tell that they they're relaying something they actually saw.

Speaker 2: Yeah, so so this group goes down 2013 and we've experienced this before. We've talked talked about this in other episodes going into the woods and even though you know where you are and you you aren't far away from a road or a path, you just instantly get lost and are walking in circles.

Speaker 1: Yeah, like that that Blair Witch in the woods, a Blair Witch phenomenon in the woods, absolutely. Yeah.

Speaker 2: Um, so these these folks went in there and in very quickly lost their sense of direction, couldn't find the right way, felt like they were being circled from above almost like by a bird.

Speaker 1: Like something was like trailing them from the sky. Ooh, spooky.

Speaker 2: Right, but then but then like it came down and then was above them in the branches and then came down to like ground level and was like following them on ground. Um,

Speaker 1: Oh wow.

Speaker 2: they were hearing growling noises. Um, they were they were feeling almost euphoric like they felt the only way they were able to describe it was they felt like there was something in the air that was almost making them feel kind of trippy.

Speaker 1: Like someone was smoking out the woods and they were getting high, like a contact high.

Speaker 2: Yeah, like if you were getting hot boxed in a car or something.

Speaker 1: But in the woods, wow. Weird.

Speaker 2: But in the woods a very unnatural

Speaker 1: Is that like some sort of pheromone or something that this creature is supposed to secrete or something?

Speaker 2: I don't know. I don't know, but they they the group of people that went out felt like they were under some sort of euphoric

Speaker 1: Wow.

Speaker 2: spell.

Speaker 1: Interesting.

Speaker 2: And

Speaker 1: Kind of like how some snakes mesmerize their prey.

Speaker 2: Yeah, yeah. And I guess how they kind of broke free of this entrapment. It was kind of near they're kind of near a military base and there were helicopters flying low. A couple helicopters have gone by um at a low altitude and all of a sudden no growling, no noise, nothing tracing them. So it was almost like the helicopters in the area kind of released the trance of the Jersey Devil, so to say. Um, but again you know these these creatures aren't out out looking to be like friendly.

Speaker 1: Oh, so once they started flying helicopters around the area, no one saw it anymore?

Speaker 2: Right, it went away. It went away. Kind of like it got scared away maybe. Might be a good way to describe it.

Speaker 1: Oh wow. And it's because of this legend that they named the hockey team. They named the hockey team after this legend?

Speaker 2: Yeah, actually. Yeah, actually.

Speaker 1: So the 13th bastard child of the Devil.

Speaker 2: Yeah.

Speaker 1: That sounds like a hockey team.

Speaker 2: Yeah. But you know they that 13th child back in 1735 Mother Leads as baby um never found any bones, never found a corpse. It was like that baby just vanished. You know it 's not like these women were in hysteria or or or whatever and are are misunderstanding a situation. I mean the woman was pregnant, she gave birth, and there's no trace of the baby. You figure it out.

Speaker 1: Wild.

Speaker 2: It's definitely it's definitely something that that kind of sparks your mind because it's not that just one person one person experienced this. You know this was a group of women that all had the same exact story.

Speaker 1: Right, when they saw it born, they all saw the same thing and saw it leave and there's no evidence of a body. And then people having these experiences in the woods even decades later that

Speaker 2: There has been sighting as as far away as Delaware and Western Maryland. So you know it it's not necessarily just in South Jersey, but there's been times where they thought that it actually attacked a trolley car.

Speaker 1: Wow.

Speaker 2: Yeah.

Speaker 1: What did they How How did it attack a trolley car? Isn't that like a train car or something?

Speaker 2: I think a like a trolley I guess, like a trolley. You know a trolley. A trolley car.

Speaker 1: I thought like a trolley was like a something that ran on rails. I don't know. Like a trolley car runs on rails. Is that like the San Francisco trolleys?

Speaker 2: Yeah, yeah. I think something like that. Yeah, yeah. I think something like that.

Speaker 1: Is it called one of those?

Speaker 2: Yeah, and the police actually shot at the creature to no effect. So the police have actually seen this. They have found um hoof prints uh in the snow after there's been a sighting, and they're not dog prints, they're not like whatever. They were actual hoof prints. You know some some some crazy shit. You know there's people, there's always people who are like, oh you know we're going to be vigilantes and we're going to go find it and hunt it down. Ah.

Speaker 1: Sure.

Speaker 2: The Philadelphia Zoo at one point posted a $10,000 reward for the creature.

Speaker 1: Wow. Wow, Pennsylvania throwing some uh reward money over for a New Jersey creature.

Speaker 2: Yeah, that was like in like I don't know like the 60s, like 1960. You know obviously to no avail. You know you're not going to go crutch catch the the devil creature with the red eyes and taking some picture.

Speaker 1: No, it's been evading people for this long. Why did they think someone would catch it now?

Speaker 2: You might as well go pick up like Bigfoot on your way and put them in the same cage, you know?

Speaker 1: Right. I mean just put them next to each other.

Speaker 2: But yeah, so in 1000 60 this zoo they they were going to do whatever it took to try to capture the Jersey Devil and bring it to them. You know it it it's kind of like one of those places animals don't like to go into into that particular forest. People try to go in there um and do like day hiking, stay with their dog or something. The dogs just don't want to enter. If that doesn't tell you something right there, I don't know what does.

Speaker 1: Yeah, as soon as animals are are freaking out, that makes me feel all weird. I don't like it when animals start getting like tweaked out at nothing or seemingly nothing.

Speaker 2: People have even described that there's no bird activity in that forest as well. If there are no birds and the dogs don't want to go in there, turn around, my friends. Turn around.

Speaker 1: Definitely eerie. That is not a good place. Not a good place to go.

Speaker 2: I just I I don't understand why people would be like, hey, let's go check this out.

Speaker 1: Hey, they wanted the reward. You know you offer people enough money, they'll go hunting for anything.

Speaker 2: Yeah, but the thing is is that like it wants to kill you.

Speaker 1: Yeah, it wants to kill you. Why would you even go? I wouldn't go. The $10,000 is not enough of a reward for something that wants to eat you and and then take your soul.

Speaker 2: Now, there was a guy on the

Speaker 1: Maybe 20,000.

Speaker 2: this guy in in in 2015 um David Black, uh local resident, he's claiming that he has a photograph of the Jersey Devil. I've seen the photograph. Uh

Speaker 1: What is Bank? Could it be?

Speaker 2: It could be. It's it's kind of flying in the air, and it does kind of have that hoof feet, goat face, short wings look to it. But I also feel like I am not the I don't know if I am technologically savvy enough to say it is not a doctored picture.

Speaker 1: Okay, so there is some possible photographic evidence though.

Speaker 2: Pause and and you know when when I was doing some of this research where I found this not that that it necessarily matters, but it was um a story on ABC News. So this is actually you know a mainstream news uh that did a story on this. And And again you know the sky claims I I don't know. You can't tell. Like I said you can't tell. It It could be fake, it could be real. I don't know, but it it it's freaky nonetheless because I believe the story. I believe in the cryptid itself. I'm just not sure I believe this particular guy.

Speaker 1: Okay.

Speaker 2: It's enough to make you go, what the hell is out in those woods? And I don't want to be out there alone. But thanks.

Speaker 1: Are there any other photographs or any other types of evidence that it it exists?

Speaker 2: Um, there are people throughout time. Like I said this has been kind of a 300 year old story. There are people that that claim to have had pictures of them. They a lot of them were debunked. You know you got to figure at the beginning of this story uh photographs weren't even invented yet. But there's some from like the early to mid 1900s, but they they were easily debunked by local authorities. I think a lot of people want to get a picture of it.

Speaker 1: Kind of like Bigfoot.

Speaker 2: Yeah, it's like I'm not saying you didn't see it, but your picture's a bunch of shit kind of thing.

Speaker 1: Right.

Speaker 2: You know I I kind of like the alien thing. I believe I saw an alien ship when I was in ninth grade just like half my town, but I also I'm not claiming to have a picture of it either. You know what I mean?

Speaker 1: Right, yeah. Exactly.

Speaker 2: Um, and So I'm not in that these people might have seen something. I'm just not Their pictures aren't necessarily 100% convincing. But but this guy in 2015, it's it's a pretty darn good picture, but I just I'm not 100% sure because I just don't have that technological background.

Speaker 1: Yeah, okay. Well, fair enough. Fair enough. Creepy story nonetheless. Even if there isn't any pictures, that type of legend, that local legend is always fascinating.

Speaker 2: You know, I like Bigfoot better because Bigfoot just wants to be left alone. These last couple cryptids I've talked about, like they just want to like take your soul and kill you and like what the hell?

Speaker 1: Yeah, these guys are mean. They're just really mean. That's not cool. These Sasquatches are friendly somewhat as long as you don't fuck around with them.

Speaker 2: They just want to be left alone, but I guess when you call something a devil, you get what you expect you're going to get.

Speaker 1: Yeah, that poor baby was cursed by its mother and then the town's people kind of cursed it and thinking that it was the child of the devil or whatever. It didn't never have a chance.

Speaker 2: Yeah.

Speaker 1: More than likely it was just some poor deformed baby and and they were just

Speaker 2: When you think about that time period back in the 1700s, that's exactly what it probably was, unfortunately. It was probably a baby with some deformity. You know what I'm saying and and it got turned into

Speaker 1: Yeah, that the family didn't want to begin with and

Speaker 2: Right. Right. And it turned into

Speaker 1: got turned into a big story.

Speaker 2: You know, it it it sounds good and it sounds interesting, but is this really just a child with a deformity that got twisted and turned into something?

Speaker 1: More than likely.

Speaker 2: Or is it really the child of Satan who was born in freaking rural New Jersey?

Speaker 1: Yeah, very interesting local legend for sure. And then probably never know what started it, but your I think your assessment is probably spot on.

Speaker 2: I definitely think that at some point we really need to go and check out for ourselves to see if we find the Jersey Devil.

Speaker 1: Oh, shall you and your dangerous trips? I don't know. This that would be

Speaker 2: How bad could it be?

Speaker 1: Uh, well, getting murdered and your soul eaten bad. That's how bad.

Speaker 2: Yeah, but that's what you're there for. You always make that stuff work out somehow in the end. I come out with a great idea and you somehow save us in the end.

Speaker 1: How is it that you always come up with these crazy ideas and and I somehow end up

Speaker 2: and saving my ass? I don't know. You're good at it.

Speaker 1: I know we're a good team. You You get us in to trouble, I help get us out of trouble.

Speaker 2: And it makes for fun stuff.

Speaker 1: It does make for fun stuff.

Speaker 2: So yeah, um, definitely the Jersey Devil, check it out. Pine Barrens, South New Jersey. I'm down. I 'm down. If anybody out there, um, has any stories or experiences with the Jersey Devil, definitely share because I'm very intrigued by this. Even though Laylla's never heard about it and I have heard of it before, I didn't I still don't think I know the whole grasp of the Jersey Devil story. So if anybody out there has any additional info, shoot us an email. I'd love to hear it.

Speaker 1: I'd love to hear variations on that legend. That'd be very cool. And we could definitely go check it out as long as we then go see a Jersey Devils hockey game afterwards.

Speaker 2: Right. Yeah.

Speaker 1: Yeah. That'd be so fun. And that would be scary enough, I think.

Speaker 2: The hockey game? Yeah.

Speaker 1: The hockey game.

Speaker 2: Yeah.

Speaker 1: Do you remember was a few episodes ago you talked about the wedding where the they had dosed a couple layers of the wedding cake with cannabis? And I was all concerned about whether the guests knew or not. And thankfully in that case everyone was aware that grandma was going to get high if she ate the the wedding cake.

Speaker 2: There was a recent news story, yep.

Speaker 1: There was. You did hear. There was a recent news story where some aspiring chef bride, I guess, and her cook cohort caterer cohort dosed all of the food without telling anyone. People got so high off of these edibles. She didn't even like lightly dose them. She like mega dosed everything. People were throwing up.

Speaker 2: The bride and the caterer actually got arrested.

Speaker 1: They asked the groom if he knew anything about it and he apparently was completely clueless, totally stoned out of his mind and just kind of blankly stared at them before he remembered the word no and got that out. Granted they were all going to be fine, but that's still not something anyone should ever do.

Speaker 2: You know, uh, you don't you don't you don't do anything of any nature, no matter what it is. You don't do anything of any nature like that against someone's personal choice, personal

Speaker 1: What was she thinking? Why would she think that was a good idea? I don't get it.

Speaker 2: You don't do that to people. You

Speaker 1: That's right.

Speaker 2: Like talk about pissing grandma off. You don't do that to your friends and family. Like that's that's low blow stuff.

Speaker 1: And first of all, you don't dose people without their knowledge. You just don't do it. And second of all, it sounds like the levels that she dosed these people was insane. If you're going to If you're going to put cannabis in a whole meal, you have to do it knowing that people are going to eat everything. And so you have to dose it accordingly and make sure you keep those levels very very low. And it doesn't sound like they did that. I think these people got a very high dose of edible cannabis and that's not something anyone should do and definitely not unsuspecting.

Speaker 2: Just because it's weed doesn't make it right.

Speaker 1: Yep.

Speaker 2: And and I think that's the biggest thing that that might teach them is that just because it's weed doesn't make it right, you know? Because I read one article where the caterer was quoted as saying something like, oh, it's not like it was crack. Well, okay, you're right. It wasn't. Doesn't make it right.

Speaker 1: Yeah. Exactly. You're right. They're fine. They're all going to be fine. Chances are extremely high that every single one of those people will recover in a few hours and have zero effects.

Speaker 2: Doesn't make it right.

Speaker 1: Does not make it right. It still is subjecting people to something against their will and it's it's not cool, not good.

Speaker 2: No, no. And that's that's that takes the fun level out of it and it takes the legality out of it and it takes the the whole spirit of getting high and being high out of it.

Speaker 1: Absolutely. And okay, so grandma's glaucoma and was probably better. I know I'm not even going to joke about it. I'm not going to go there. Kind of like Mike Tyson. Here's another person that we were just recently talking about in the news and I'm completely

Speaker 2: The fuck is with him?

Speaker 1: I'm so conflicted over how I feel about this. Mike Tyson was recently in the news. We just talked about how he's very much on a journey to find Zen and peace in his life.

Speaker 2: Obviously not. Obviously not.

Speaker 1: Here he is on a plane and you've got the troll of all trolls sitting behind him that Tyson is trying to be nice to and this guy is being a complete and total airplane dick. You know the type, the one we all want to turn around and punch in the fucking head. And unfortunately Tyson gave in to that impulse.

Speaker 2: He gave in.

Speaker 1: I'm not going to say that guy deserved it because nobody deserves to get hit, but oh my god, I 'm going to watch that video again probably.

Speaker 2: He took throat punch to a different level.

Speaker 1: Yeah, you don't hit people. Come on. But come on. The the levels that this guy was going to antagonize Tyson was terrible.

Speaker 2: That is why you should be able to buy a little baggie of edibles from the stewardess on the airplane. Just say

Speaker 1: Yeah, you can't smoke and you you can't even vape on a plane.

Speaker 2: Give me the gummies.

Speaker 1: One of the offerings on the plane should be edibles. If you can buy a mixed drink, you should also be able to buy THC chips, THC water, THC gummies so that you don't punch the guy in the seat in front of you that just leaned his chair all the way back to your face.

Speaker 2: Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. American Airlines, if you're out there, weed gummies.

Speaker 1: Weed gummies. The stoned witches approve. We we highly approve. Offer weed weed lace things on your flights. We'd fly more. So there's there's that. I don't know how to segue into my story.

Speaker 2: What you talking about today? What are you talking about? Is it Is it better than the Jersey Devil? What you got today?

Speaker 1: I don't know. That's a really good local legend, but I'm I'm going the the true crime route today. So we're going to talk about Rodney Alcala, sometimes known as the dating game killer.

Speaker 2: Uh-oh, does this have to do with the actual dating game show? Because I loved that show.

Speaker 1: It does. This guy actually appeared on the dating game in the midst of his killing spree.

Speaker 2: Oh my god, looking for dates? Imagine being on that show and then finding out after and being like, oh my god, I would have picked him. Glad I didn't.

Speaker 1: Do you want to know if he won or not?

Speaker 2: Are you going to tell me he won?

Speaker 1: I'm not telling you. You have to wait and see. I'll tell you in a minute when I get there.

Speaker 2: Such a tease.

Speaker 1: Right? I try. I try. All right. So we're going to start our story in 1968. And at this time Rodney Alcala was living in, uh, the Hollywood area. He was a young 20 something guy, long curly hair, described as very handsome and he was a photographer.

Speaker 2: Oh, Laylla.

Speaker 1: Mhm. So we're going to talk about a young woman, Morgan Rowan, 16, just a girl. She was living in Hollywood in 1968. Like many teenagers of that time, she spent a lot of her nights on the Sunset Strip partying at the dance clubs that were for teenagers at that time. And in that crowd was Rodney Alcala and he was known as very handsome, but everybody knew he was way older.

Speaker 2: Ah, kind of like kind of like the creepy old guy that's hot, but still old and creepy.

Speaker 1: Right, right. Not like super old, but old enough that you know he shouldn't be there. He should be in a different type of club. Despite that, uh, Morgan and her friends all kind of had a crush on this older photographer guy that was there.

Speaker 2: Yeah. Love that name Morgan by the way.

Speaker 1: Right, beautiful name, Morgan Rowan. So Morgan and her friends are dancing one night at these clubs and this photographer, Rod, as he called himself at that time, offered them a a ride to a local IHOP. They were going to go have some pancakes in the morning as one does after hanging out all night. Instead of taking them to the IHOP though, he took them to his apartment which was a few blocks away on Delongpre Avenue. And he told them that he was here he was having a party. Come on up. So they did. And there were other people at the house and the music was super loud. They were having a good time. Her friends got distracted and were kind of separated from her, probably on purpose. And Rodney Alcala grabbed this little 16 year old girl, dragged her into his bedroom and barred the door. He then proceeded to attack her.

Speaker 2: Oh, jeez.

Speaker 1: He hit her quite a bit. He bit her, uh, he strangled her and he raped her. And he strangled her to the point where she was blacking out and thought she was dying. Thankfully her friends had noticed that she was missing and were frantically trying to find her. And when they found the locked door, they broke it down only to see Rodney covered in blood standing over their friend who was unconscious on the floor. And he was just like, just take her. She says she remembers him saying just take her like she was nothing, like she was an object.

Speaker 2: Oh my god.

Speaker 1: And her friends grabbed her and took her out of the house and she says they actually had to kind of hide from Rodney because he started looking for them. And she's throwing up blood in an alleyway as they're trying to hide her. It was horrific. But that was a time when if you told anyone that you were raped, a lot of times it was your fault.

Speaker 2: Right, right.

Speaker 1: And she did try to tell a police officer what had happened. She didn't even mention Rodney Alcala's name. And he said, well, in your short skirt and go-go boots, what do you expect?

Speaker 2: You know, and that that was kind of a shitty thing that was very common in in that era.

Speaker 1: Very much so. And so she decided not to press charges and even went so far as to hide most of her wounds and told people she'd been in a car accident to explain the ones she couldn't hide. So he didn't he didn't kill her. September of that year he tried again.

Speaker 2: With the same girl? No. Oh, I don't know if that's better or worse.

Speaker 1: Right. So he would Rodney Alcala was seen luring an eight year old girl, Tali Shapiro, into his car as she was going to school.

Speaker 2: So this asshole not even not that adult women make it okay, but even when after kids

Speaker 1: He did. He did. His victims

Speaker 2: What a fucker.

Speaker 1: His victims ranged in age from like 18 to 35. I've known victims. This witness who saw him lure this little eight year old girl into his car followed them back to Alcala's apartment on Delongpre Avenue and then called the police because it just seemed suspicious to him. By the time police arrived, Alcala wouldn't answer the door. Said he was getting out of the shower and the police actually broke down the door and went in and saw him again covered in blood with a little girl laying on the kitchen floor with blood all around her and an iron bar, the same iron bar he had locked his door with. He had used that to try and strangle this little girl and he had raped her and bitten her same as he had done with Morgan Rowan.

Speaker 2: Holy shit.

Speaker 1: Despite the severity of the attack, Tali Shapiro did survive, but Alcala escaped out a back door and took off. He So he evaded arrest and they had a warrant out for him. He fled to New York City and changed his name to John Burger, b e r g e r, and he and enrolled in NYU.

Speaker 2: Oh my god.

Speaker 1: He actually took photography lessons from Roman Polanski, oddly enough.

Speaker 2: Shocker, two peas in a pod.

Speaker 1: Right? Didn't his wife or daughter, wasn't she later killed by the Manson family?

Speaker 2: Um, yeah, but then at one point he was actually he I I think he's in jail right now currently present day as well.

Speaker 1: Right. Right. So yeah, good company.

Speaker 2: Yeah, yeah.

Speaker 1: He's changed his name. He's in New York City. And while he 's there in June of 1971, he raped and strangled Cornelia Crilly, uh, with her own stocking. She was a Trans World Airlines flight attendant and he killed her in her own apartment. Later that summer he became a camp counselor in New Hampshire. And he used a slightly different spelling of b u r, John Burger, b u r g e r as an alias. A couple of campers noticed his poster up at a local, um, post office at a local post office showing that he was on the FBI's most wanted list and they turned him into authorities. And he was arrested and he was extradited back to California to face charges on attacking and molesting Tali Shapiro.

Speaker 2: And this is all before the dating game?

Speaker 1: This is all before the dating game.

Speaker 2: Wow, they did They didn't do the background checks on on contestants like they do nowadays.

Speaker 1: They absolutely did not. So he gets extradited back to California and he goes on trial, but Tali Shapiro's parents didn't want her to testify. They had actually taken her out of the country to Mexico. And it might have been the best thing for her because she

Speaker 2: Probably.

Speaker 1: She does seem to be very well adjusted and collected and does not see herself as a victim. She's handling the situation very very well. However, because she didn't testify, they couldn't get him on the abduction or the um, or the rape charges or attempted murder charges. He was only convicted of molestation. And he served 34 months.

Speaker 2: Are you Are 34 months, that's it?

Speaker 1: That's it. He was released on parole and given permission to travel New York where he again assumed the John Burger identity. And a New York woman, Ellen Hover, 23, disappeared July 15th, 1977. And on her calendar she said she was meeting with John Burger. And so Rodney Alcala was questioned in her death and was released because there was no evidence. He pled guilty to that murder in 2012.

Speaker 2: Oh, wow.

Speaker 1: Ellen Hover was killed in 1977 and her remains were found in 1978. And that's when he was questioned by the FBI and released due to lack of evidence. Then later that year, 1978, he appeared as bachelor number one on the TV game show The Dating Game.

Speaker 2: Now what year was what what year was that again?

Speaker 1: 1978. Why don't you describe Would you describe, uh, what the Dating Game is for our listener show who might not be old enough to remember it?

Speaker 2: Nah. For all of you kiddos out there, the Dating Game was like you know, at the time it seemed like a fun game. I watched it as a kid. It was it was very 70s themed and there would be either a bachelor or a bachelorette on one panel with like the host guy. And then on the other side of the wall were three prospective daters. So if it was like one girl with a host, it'd be like three guys. And if it was like a guy with a host, then it'd be like three girls. You get the idea.

Speaker 1: Yeah. And the ones behind the screen were always called like bachelor number one, bachelor number two.

Speaker 2: Bachelor number two and bachelor number three. So this guy was bachelor number one, you said?

Speaker 1: This guy was bachelor number one.

Speaker 2: For for any of you guys that that have watched old game shows that are kind of like Laylla and Isaac's age, Chuck Barris was like the host which at the time was like a very good looking TV guy. But so you would be on the show and Chuck Barris would would be with with the single person, the contestant. And they would have these questions. And they would read these questions to the three people behind the wall. You know, like what is your idea of a great date night? Silly questions like that.

Speaker 1: Even better, they were questions that were designed full of sexual innuendo.

Speaker 2: Right, right. To watch it now in the year 2022 to go back and watch old episodes of The Dating Game, you'd laugh your ass off. The idea was is that they'd asked these questions and kind of eliminate down to the person picking bachelor one, bachelor two, or bachelor three. And then the TV show kind of set you on like a all all paid expense date basically. So yeah, this guy was bachelor number one.

Speaker 1: So he was bachelor number one behind the screen and the host described him as a successful photographer. Between takes you might find him skydiving or motorcycling. So they gave him like this really wild persona.

Speaker 2: Adventurous guy.

Speaker 1: Right? And of course his answers to things were super racy. I believe one of the questions was if you were a food, what would you be? And he's like, well, everyone calls me the banana. Why don't you peel me or something like that?

Speaker 2: Are you Does that work for guys? I Does that actually work for guys?

Speaker 1: Apparently it did. This is 1978. It's a TV game show designed to be corny and sexual. I mean,

Speaker 2: I'm a banana, come peel me. If that ain't the pickup line of the century.

Speaker 1: Apparently his banana won him the date with the girl. So our killer who was already killed

Speaker 2: Please Please tell me she's she He didn't kill her, did he? He didn't kill our contestant, did he?

Speaker 1: Well, no, he did not. They didn't even go on the date. They met backstage and she decided he was too creepy to go on a date with and she refused to go on the date with him.

Speaker 2: Wait, I saw him on a wanted poster. I ain't going on a date with him.

Speaker 1: I wish. By one account he was seen on that show by, um, Orange County police officers. And that's one of the things that helped them find him, but they didn't catch him yet because in June of 1979 he's still in California.

Speaker 2: Wow.

Speaker 1: Only now he goes to Huntington Beach Pier up here in California and he sees two young girls, two 12 year old girls playing, doing cartwheels in the sand. And he goes up to them and offers to take their photographs as that he's taking photographs for portfolio which is something he did quite a bit with people and a lot of his victims.

Speaker 2: Those were his trophies. The pictures were his trophies. Is that basically what it was?

Speaker 1: You are not far off, Chelle, my little investigator. He's taking pictures of these girls and tries to get them to go away with him when thankfully a good Samaritan sees what's going on and comes over. Even though she didn't know the girls, she wanted to make sure everything was okay. And she kind of was like putting herself between the girls and this man. And he took off. And the girls were kind of spooked and decided to leave. And one of the girls, Robin Samsoe, 12 year old Robin Samsoe, had to get to ballet class. So her best friend offered to allow her to ride her bike and said, go straight there and don't stop for anyone because they were spooked about this encounter. Robin Samsoe never made it to ballet class.

Speaker 2: Didn't listen to her friends, did she?

Speaker 1: Nobody knows exactly how he got to her, but 12 days later her body was found in a remote ravine. The ballet class

Speaker 2: Did they know it was him?

Speaker 1: Yes.

Speaker 2: I mean, I'm not trying to give the guy all benefit of the doubt and stuff, but you know, unfortunately there's sick people out there. Did they know it was him?

Speaker 1: He was seen leading her up the ravine. And there is other evidence as well that, uh, DNA evidence as well that ties him to her as well as, um, one of the things he took as trophies were earrings. And he had her earrings.

Speaker 2: Oh.

Speaker 1: So she didn't make it to the ballet lesson. The teacher called the parents and said she'd never gotten there. And the parents were already worried because she hadn't come home and it was late. And they looked and looked and looked for her. Her brother describes just searching for her for hours and unceasingly. Um, she was found by a forest service worker in a remote ravine 12 days later, quite a bit of ways. Um, I believe it was over 10 miles or more from where she had last been seen. And a kitchen knife was found nearby.

Speaker 2: So he basically like younger girls, preteen teenage girls, early 20s. So like preteen to 20s.

Speaker 1: Yeah, in early 20s, mid to late 20s as well. He had a wide range. So after her body was found and her friend described the meeting with Alcala, uh, they put out a search for him. And he was brought in and arrested July in 1979 for the abduction and murder of poor little 12 year old Robin Samsoe. And he was convicted on those charges in 1980. Interestingly, during this trial, it came out that he had a storage locker in Seattle. And when they searched that storage locker, they found a trove of over 1,000 photographs of young women and men, some of them in very sexually explicit positions. And some of them were his victims, known victims. They also found a silk bag full of earrings including the earrings that had been on Robin Samsoe when she went missing.

Speaker 2: Wow.

Speaker 1: Many of those photographs have been connected to his victims. Um, we'll talk more about those photographs a little bit later. But four years after his conviction in 1980 it was overturned because supposedly the jury had been tainted by being improperly told about his prior record.

Speaker 2: Oh my god.

Speaker 1: Then they tried him again and got it in 1986 and got a second guilty verdict. But this was again overturned. Each time he's been sentenced to death for this. And this 1986 guilty verdict was overturned again in 2001. This time they said that the prosecutors had hypnotized the forest service worker that had found Samsoe's body.

Speaker 2: What? Hypnotized them?

Speaker 1: Yeah.

Speaker 2: First of all, have you met someone who's worked for the forest service because they're not the type that are susceptible to being hypnotized?

Speaker 1: Right. At the time unrelated, but a woman's body was discovered in 1982 by a rancher in a big open field in Wyoming. And she had been murdered.

Speaker 2: I don't mean to I don't mean to interrupt you, but how did they avoid the whole double jeopardy thing as well?

Speaker 1: I I'm not exactly sure, but it depending on how the case is like

Speaker 2: Tried.

Speaker 1: how it's dismissed, I guess, will depend on whether you can retry them or not. Um, I know there are some cases where you can. I'm not a lawyer, so I'm I'm not entirely sure, but I we could probably look that up or have a lawyer contact us and let us know. But the last overturning when it that charge was overturned in 1986 actually worked against Rodney Alcala in the end.

Speaker 2: How?

Speaker 1: Because by that time DNA technology and other forensics had caught up and they were able to they had taken a sample of his DNA during his prior convictions and they used that DNA and ran it through a database and found four victims that he had killed that he had left semen or saliva on.

Speaker 2: Lessons learned is nowadays only date somebody who has submitted their information ancestry DNA.

Speaker 1: Right. So those four victims That's I laugh, but that's a good idea.

Speaker 2: Right?

Speaker 1: The four victims that they used his DNA to match were Jill Barcomb, 18, who was a runaway that had been found like rolled up into a ball and shoved into a Los Angeles ravine in 1977.

Speaker 2: Oh.

Speaker 1: Georgia Wixsted, who was 27, who'd been beaten to death in her apartment in 1977. Charlotte Lamb was 31, who had been raped, strangled, and left in the laundry room of her apartment complex in El Segundo in 1978. And Jill Parento, 21, who was killed in her apartment. He strangled, raped, bit and bit.

Speaker 2: What was the motive? What was the motive? Do do does anybody know why was he doing this?

Speaker 1: Nobody knows. He liked the control. He he had a similar um he had a similar manner of killing them. He would offer to take their photographs. He would take them to a secluded place and take their photographs and then he would beat them. He would bite them and he would strangle them. Some of his survivors said that he liked to strangle them to the point where they would almost die and rape them and then when they came back to, then he would strangle them and kill them again. So he liked to torture them.

Speaker 2: Was this like like a like a a sex game?

Speaker 1: Very much so. Very much so. It would definitely involve sex and power for him. He would then take their earrings and pose them in usually in carefully chosen positions and take their pictures. So some of the earrings, they also tested the earrings that they had found in that Seattle locker during one of his prior trials and they found DNA that matched Charlotte Lamb. So now they're be able to use better technology to tie him to many many more crimes. In 2003, they redid the trial again. Again, I'm not sure how, but they redid the trial again for killing and abducting Robin Samsoe. They had these four new victims that they had DNA evidence that they could tie him to. During this 2003 trial, Alcala decided to act as his own attorney.

Speaker 2: That always works out well for people.

Speaker 1: Exactly. And by act, I kind of mean that literally because he adopted a deeper voice when he would be his attorney and ask himself questions and then he would answer

Speaker 2: Did he think he was on like Law & Order?

Speaker 1: Maybe. I don't know. And then he would answer himself in his normal voice. And a lot of these questions apparently involved his long flowing hair. I don't know.

Speaker 2: But what did he ask himself? Like what kind of conditioner he used?

Speaker 1: I'm not sure, but some talked about the extensive questions that he asked himself about his hair. But he had absurd basically he said he didn't remember doing it and he couldn't have done it because he wasn't there. Wasn't me. Was his defense. And for his closing statement, you remember that song, the Arlo Guthrie song, Alice's Restaurant, that really long rambling song story?

Speaker 2: I do. I do. I do.

Speaker 1: There's a part in the story where the narrator is trying to get out of the draft and so they try to pretend to be crazy, right? And they go on about kill kill kill and eating bodies and I'm going to kill all these people.

Speaker 2: Yep.

Speaker 1: He played that part in court as part of his closing statement.

Speaker 2: What? Was he was he smoking our weed?

Speaker 1: Yeah. I wish because I don't know. I not going to say that wouldn't have made him a crazy murderous motherfucker, but maybe it wouldn't have made him a murderous motherfucker. Yeah, he played that part of the song and

Speaker 2: I hope he was convicted.

Speaker 1: Absolutely. All five counts of first degree murder and he was sentenced to death again and this time it's stuck.

Speaker 2: Did they have they had the death penalty there?

Speaker 1: Yes. It later was um uh governor

Speaker 2: Baradicated it or whatever.

Speaker 1: Yeah, the governor turned stopped the death penalty here in California, but he remained in prison. The motherfucker died last year July.

Speaker 2: I was I was just going to ask you. I was just going to ask you if he was still alive or not. So he's dead now?

Speaker 1: He's dead, thankfully.

Speaker 2: Good.

Speaker 1: Rotten hell. So back to the pictures that they found in that locker

Speaker 2: Uh-huh.

Speaker 1: over 900 of them were too explicit to release, but they've used the pictures to identify several more victims and they've released 120 of his photographs. March 2010, the Huntington California Huntington Beach California department and the New York City police departments released 120 of his photos online to try and get the public's help in identifying these potential other victims because they they know of a bunch of victims and they're pretty sure there's more. Um after they released the ones that they could, 21 people came forward and said, hey, I am in those pictures and I am okay. And some of them had creepy stories to recount, some of them didn't.

Speaker 2: That's crazy.

Speaker 1: Six families came forward and said one of those people is someone I loved that disappeared and I don't know what happened.

Speaker 2: Wow.

Speaker 1: And so those are more than likely six people that he had murdered that they just haven't found yet.

Speaker 2: Wow. Wow. And he never alluded to

Speaker 1: No. One other remember the body that I mentioned that had been found in 1982?

Speaker 2: Yes.

Speaker 1: That was determined when those pictures were released, a woman, Kathy Thornton, who had been looking for her sister Christine for 40 years, saw those pictures and said that's my sister. And they were able to use her DNA to match it to the body that they had found in in Wyoming. It was the body of Christine Thornton, who in 1977 had run away with her boyfriend, but they had gotten in a fight and she met up with Alcala who said he was going to take her picture and he took her out to this remote field in Wyoming and raped and murdered and left her there. Her body wasn't found until like 1982, um but it was determined because of those pictures that he was the one that had killed her.

Speaker 2: Oh wow.

Speaker 1: Yeah.

Speaker 2: Oh wow.

Speaker 1: So they still have these pictures online. There are still quite a few pictures that they're trying to find. Some estimates say that he 's killed 50 to 150 people and they found them all. I'll post a link to the pictures. They're hunting, but you can see the pictures that he took. Hopefully most of them are people that just went about their lives and you know are fine, but more than likely some of them

Speaker 2: Yeah, now that that definitely calls for one of those stupid Facebook marked safe from type posts. Like with chat.

Speaker 1: Mark safe from the dating game killer 2022.

Speaker 2: Yeah, seriously. Seriously because if there's that many pictures

Speaker 1: Yeah.

Speaker 2: there could be that many families who don't know whatever happened to their loved one.

Speaker 1: Yeah, and how many people died without ever seeing these pictures? You know and so there's no one to speak for them any You know there's there's loved ones died before they could ever know.

Speaker 2: Right. Right. Right. So there's no no immediate family to quote unquote claim that picture. You know what I'm saying?

Speaker 1: Right. Someone some of those people may not have any living relatives to to claim them, to recognize them. That's sad.

Speaker 2: That's sad.

Speaker 1: But I will put the pictures links to the pictures up so that you can scroll through them. Maybe you'll recognize a a long lost relative. But that's my that my sad story for today. That's my true crime.

Speaker 2: That's sad. That's actually sad and I am glad he rotted in jail finally. Well deserved.

Speaker 1: May he be removed from the wheel of reincarnation. May he come back as a bug and be squished multiple times.

Speaker 2: May his soul be caught by the Jersey Devil in the Pukwudgies.

Speaker 1: Oh, there you go. They can pav them. They can play with them for sure. But yeah, sad scary stories today, Shell. I'm going to smoke a little pot and try to uh try to find some Zen in this springtime season.

Speaker 2: Well, get your sentence, smoke your weed, and and we'll we will get back here again next week for another awesome episode of the Stone Witches Hour. Glad everybody could join us today. And again, if you have any sighting stories of the Jersey Devil, shoot us an email. Um we definitely want to hear about it. And yeah, get high, get stoned, happy May.

Speaker 1: Yeah, happy spring. Can't wait for summer. You know, get stony, get happy, get out. Yeah, roll a bunch of joints. I'll go on a nice little hike. Enjoy the the new grass and the sunshine and try to remember that you know there is lots of wonderful things in this world.

Speaker 2: There is. There is. I'm going to grab a bowl and I'm going to head to the beach and smoke on the sand.

Speaker 1: Oh, that sounds lovely. All right. Stay high, stay happy, and we'll see you next time on the Stone Witches Hour.

Speaker 2: Keep it spooky.

Speaker 1: Thanks for listening to the Stone Witches Hour with Chelle and Laylla. If you like what you heard, please rate us and consider giving us a review. It really helps the show out and we'll definitely take a touk of the kindest bud in your honor.
