Laylla: Welcome to Back on the Broomstick, a modern witches' spoken word grimoire, where two witchy friends from way back are reconnecting to their pagan roots after a long period of mundanity.

Chelle: We're rewalking the path of the wise and trying out all the latest spells, rituals, and magical theory in today's witchcraft and pagan practices.

Laylla: So grab your wand and your incense, your cauldron and your crystals, and join us as we get back on the broomstick.

Laylla: Hi, and welcome to the Solarium, Chelle and Laylla's sacred sanctuary from the sun, where we sit amongst the herbs, crack open a few books, lay out tarot cards, sip tea, and toke the finest green. Today, we're here in the Solarium with a little bit of news and some books. I'm Laylla, and I am ready to dive into some reviews and see what's brewing in the Solarium today.

Chelle: And I'm Chelle, and I'll be honest with you. I'm I'm kind of just ready to spill some tea here for a minute and have a little chat. The books that we're going to talk about are fabulous, but, you know, right in the moment, I'm in a little tea spilling mood.

Laylla: Before we get into spilling the tea, I just want to mention one of the things that we have today is actually a listener-published item that was sent in for us. So I'm pretty excited to feature a calendar, an astrological year calendar that was sent in for us as well.

Chelle: It's always fun to uh get stuff from listeners and then be able to share it with everyone else as well.

Laylla: Yeah, this is pretty cool. But just recently, we had a very lovely witch on the show, Beck Ravenswood, owner of the Serpent's Key, and they are, amongst other things, they are currently the only person legally allowed to read tarot in Pennsylvania. And that is due to an old law from roughly 1861, back during the Civil War, I guess. People were not allowed to read tarot, divination, or fortunes at all in Pennsylvania. Beck was intimidated by the local police force and is now embroiled in a legal battle. You can go listen to our interview with them. We will link that in the show description. But they just recently had a court date to set a trial.

Chelle: Now, this kind of really was a little bit of frustrating to me because I think myself along with a lot of the masses kind of thought that when they went to this first court thing, that it would just kind of be thrown out. That's not a thing. Sorry for your trouble. Have a good day.

Laylla: That's what we were hoping.

Chelle: And that's not what happened. So right now, um I guess the current status, I mean, yes, they've been given a new court date, um but the current status is a federal judge denied a motion to dismiss the case, allowing the constitutional challenge to proceed towards a final ruling. But, weirdly enough, they issued a temporary injunction protecting Beck for tarot reading, but nobody else in the state. Like, WTF? Like, what's up with that?

Laylla: Yeah, yeah. That's a little frustrating. But at least Beck is fighting the good fight, and they have a date sometime June of 2027. So keep the justice spells, keep the good vibes going for Beck. And I also think that didn't we just see that Serpent's Key is hosting a flash tattoo event on Mabon?

Chelle: They actually are, and the minute I showed that to you, you're like, "All right, let's go. When?"

Laylla: Right? I think we have a prior commitment, but dang, if we didn't, I would so be there.

Chelle: But, you know, I I think what Beck does is is a great thing, not just, you know, fighting the good fight with the law, but providing a space in their community that does such fabulous things. And, you know, maybe a flash tattoo day on Mabon isn't your thing, but they they provide space for people for rituals and connection.

Laylla: They teach workshops and classes. They invite other people from the community to come in and do that, to share their knowledge with everyone. And and I think that's really needed, and that's why Shannon and I started Crystal City Circle. That's why we have that. That's why we're all so involved in that community here because it's it's needed. And I think you just recently connected with someone with a local space here that hopefully we'll start to have more and more of a relationship with and can introduce you all to.

Chelle: Being a community member is important. It's very important. And now more than ever, we need people to connect with each other and to find these spaces and create these spaces if you don't have them.

Laylla: One of the spaces that we were at just recently that kind of exemplifies that community coming together was Brushwood Folklore Center in Sherman, New York, for their Sankofa and Sirius Rising festivals.

Chelle: Oh, Brushwood. Is is there anything better?

Laylla: I I don't know. I'm looking.

Chelle: Yeah, right? We actually had some listeners there that were able to enjoy the magic, just the Zenness that Brushwood can give you.

Laylla: Allison and Ellen, Alex and JP, hi, guys. Love you. Just giving a little shout-out, just saying hello. It was fabulous. And, you know, Allison, I I hope I'm not outing you too much here, but I loved seeing how excited she was to be at her first festival. And I loved seeing her in workshops and just throwing herself into the magic of the place and being able to give her and her spouse a tour of Brushwood, of this magical place that has been part of our journey for so long, to be able to introduce that to someone was an amazing honor. So thank you, guys, for that. That was very, very cool. And thank you so much for showing up.

Chelle: And, you know, that just reminds me that, you know, those connections, you don't know when they're going to circle back. And we had a listener whose name I cannot remember right now, but you know who you are. We had a listener that met us at a festival 24 years ago.

Laylla: Oh, holy shit. I forgot. Whoa, you just blew my brain. Yes. Yes.

Chelle: Yes.

Laylla: Yes.

Chelle: Was it that crazy?

Laylla: Was it 2002, Out of the Dark Productions? We had been invited because of um workshops we had given at, what was it, Blessed Be and Meet Me in DC or something, the year before?

Chelle: Either that or something we did in Ohio, one of the two.

Laylla: One of the two. We had given workshops in 2001 and met someone from this group who invited us down to North Carolina?

Chelle: No, I think it was like Isle of Wight, Virginia.

Laylla: Isle of Wight. That's Yes, it was Isle of Wight.

Chelle: It's sounding like England, but it was not England.

Laylla: Yes, Isle of Wight. So we got invited to Isle a campground on Isle of Wight by Out of the Dark Productions to give workshops.

Chelle: I think that's the uh the festival that we went to that I got a tick.

Laylla: It is. It is the And it's the And it's the festival that we went to that a spider had a vendetta against my husband and literally chased him out of the tent. So, yeah, very strange, interesting place. But fabulous workshops. I remember giving the Dark Face of the Goddess workshop there.

Chelle: I did incense workshops there, yep.

Laylla: And we all, along with my husband, gave a uh introduction to drumming workshop where we introduced people to some very basic rhythms of drumming.

Chelle: And this listener was there and found the information about it. Wow. I mean, over 24 almost 25 years ago. Wow. Just amazing.

Laylla: What a trip down memory lane. But that was an absolutely fantastic time for us and a wonderfully magical, witchy weekend. So I'm so glad to hear that our listener had a great time then, too.

Chelle: The last bit of tea we've got, let's let's spill this little bit. Where are we going to be here soon, Laylla?

Laylla: Oh, my goodness. You totally distracted me with this trip down memory lane, but some of the workshops that we gave at Brushwood, we are going to reprise and give, hopefully, fingers crossed, as a duo at Central New York Pagan Pride up near Syracuse, New York, coming up in September.

Chelle: So if you are in the New York region, Laylla and I, at the very least, will be hanging out, chatting, meeting folks out at Central New York Pagan Pride. Guess what we've got.

Laylla: I was just about to bring up the same thing because I'm so excited about this. Tell them. Tell them what we got. Tell them.

Chelle: So we have got four, not one, four brand-new stickers.

Laylla: I love these stickers. Now, before anybody asks, there is zero AI in any of these stickers. The Stone Witches on a Broomstick is artwork that was done by my daughter back when we started Stone Witches Hour that we tweaked a little bit and turned into our Stone Witches on a Broomstick logo. So that's on there. There's a Ouija board that I designed entirely out of clip art. That's all me. Thank you very much. I did a great job.

Chelle: Bravo. Bravo.

Laylla: There's the green Keep It Witchy sticker that you designed.

Chelle: Yep. I mean, green is my favorite color.

Laylla: Love it. Love it. And then we've got our logo.

Chelle: Our classic besom pentacle. Those are free. If you would like a free sticker, you just need to come to Long Branch Park in Syracuse area, New York, on September 19th and grab one and chat.

Laylla: And that is why we will not be at the flash tattoo thing at Beck's shop, the Serpent's Key. You know, that was really a tough choice. I'm not going to lie.

Chelle: It was. Oh, my gosh. So if you're offering tattoos in the Liverpool area, so there is our tea for the day. And now let's get into some of these books that we've got stacked up here in our beautiful, sunny Solarium because these are fantastic. And this calendar is beautiful.

Chelle: It's it's actually been a cooler than normal summer for us northeastern folk.

Laylla: Very much cooler.

Chelle: And it's been conducive to reading books.

Laylla: Good point. I We did talk about that just recently.

Chelle: It it really has been conducive. And and we've got some really good ones here. And like you said, plus a calendar. So start us off there, Laylla.

Laylla: I'm actually going to start us off with probably what I am going to say Okay, take this with a grain of salt. I'm not saying this replaces Uncle Bucky's Big Blue Book, but I'm saying this is on par with and definitely more updated than the Big Blue Book.

Chelle: It is a 2026 version of what his Big Blue Book could have been.

Laylla: Yeah. What we're talking about is by Cross Crow Books. Thank you, guys. This is Patricia Telesco's book, Your Book of Shadows: How to Write Your Own Magical Spells. And this is a pretty solid book of information. I mean, going through this, I kept flashing back

Chelle: I I was, too.

Laylla: to the foundational books back when I first started. And this is solid. It has very solid information on anything you would want to know starting out in witchcraft or even as an intermediate witch.

Chelle: And, you know, this reminded me, and and I think this is something that I wish was in a book back in the day, is she reminded me you don't have to have all of the things in the Book of Shadows/grimoire right on day damn one. And I felt like I needed to get down all the sabbats, all the correspondences, all the crystals, all the runes, all the tarot, all the goddesses in like day one. And she very plainly tells you, "No, and it's okay."

Laylla: And I also That's fabulous because we get so caught up on needing the things, or "I don't have the right things to start, so I'm just not going to start at all."

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: That bypasses that completely.

Chelle: But I think she gives really good organizational tips, um not only content to put in there, but organizational tips. And you know I love a good organized book. She kind of gives you a good a good method to lay it out in an organized, comprehensive manner, and I really, really liked that.

Laylla: I'm glad you said organized because I love how she organized the book because it starts out as magical symbols and tools because you need that. You need to just know those things. But then it goes to meditation and creating sacred space, which we believe are two of the most important things. You need to learn how to meditate, get in touch with your magical brain. You need to learn how to ground and center and create sacred space. So this book gives you all of them. Talks about tools, talks about how-tos, herbs, crystals, spell work, all of it, plant and animal correspondences. It's a good, solid grounding in magical spell work. All right, so this next book, we're actually going to hopefully pronounce correctly.

Chelle: Oh, boy. You know I'm not good at this.

Laylla: Well, we did look up the author herself pronouncing it, so I'm pretty sure we've got it right. And I would say that the title of this book is my only mark against it, and it's just a small mark against it. But this book is Geraldine Moorkens Byrne's Draíocht Ceoil: The Sound of Magic in Irish Traditions.

Chelle: Good job, because I don't know if I could have said that properly. Now, because I am I am a person that has issues with saying things, I really wish that either somewhere in that book, it would have given you some phonetic, "This is how you say it," or if they would have just cut to the chase and entitled the book Music Magic.

Laylla: Actually, since you mentioned it, I'm going to get that right out in the open. We've already talked about this, but that was my one complaint about this book is I searched and searched and searched for pronunciation guide, and there was not any. And there is a lot of words in here in Gaelic. So it's very difficult. And the title itself, Draíocht Ceoil, it might turn some people off.

Chelle: My first thought was Dracula.

Laylla: Yes.

Chelle: I'm not going to lie.

Laylla: And I love this book. So I'm just going to say, I think having a pronunciation guide would have helped. But I absolutely love this book. You and I are people who love music, and in particular, I love music in ritual. I think I've said back in the past that having drums or drumming as part of ritual is one of those things that will immediately elevate a ritual for me and turn it into wildly sacred and powerful space right away if done well. And chanting can do that for me as well. Even though I can't sing, I love chanting in a spell or ritual because of how powerful it feels to me.

Chelle: And this book also talks about bardic traditions and bardic circles, which we are also fans of.

Laylla: Yes.

Chelle: Like you said in the beginning, great, great book. But could you help a girl out with pronunciations? Geez.

Laylla: Seriously. But this book ties all of those things that we love together, and it gives a beautiful history on bardic tradition. It talks about why and how music and sound was used in ritual and was used to direct energy, could be used to direct energy.

Chelle: It also kind of shows you how some of these magical traditions have been able to endure space in time and religious takeover and political takeover and and all of the crap in the world because these are still traditions that are practiced by the masses regularly today. It's not something that fell to the wayside that had to be brought back. These are traditions that never stopped.

Laylla: She relates it to some modern traditions that people might be more familiar with, such as prayer, because people are very familiar with that. But words are sacred to bards, and this book talks about words being sacred and powerful, the words of poetry, just spoken words in general, chanted words, musical words, but words themselves have power. And if you want to learn about some of the traditions of using the sound of magic from time immemorial and how to use it now in your practice, this book is a beautiful, very well-written way to get that information.

Chelle: Yeah, I mean, it really does delve into how sound itself, whether created by your voice or an instrument, is its own separate layer of magic. And, you know, we always talk about, you know, the layers of things and adding another layer. And that's exactly what either music, singing, or chanting will do is add another layer to your your practice. So this is a phenomenal book, and I think some of these these takeaways from this book, how do I want to say this, you can implement them even if you are not practicing Irish tradition.

Laylla: And even if you suck at singing like I do, the chapter on using sound as magic, I thought was phenomenal. It gives you every step of a spell or ritual and tells you how to use sound in that part of the spell or ritual. I thought that part was fantastic.

Chelle: Excellent book. I give that definitely at least four brooms.

Laylla: Oh, yeah, absolutely. Same. And and again, as someone who cannot carry a tune even if you freaking gave it to me in a bag, I still loved it. All right, so we're going to skip from a big box store provided books to a listener sent-in item, actually.

Chelle: Now, this I actually think this is really, really cool. This came to us from one of our listeners. We received this from Wyatt at astrologicalyear.com, and this is actually pretty cool. What do you think, Laylla?

Laylla: Now, when I heard we were going to get this, I was pretty excited because we are also hoping to get some 2027 calendars and yearly planners from a few other sources as well. Was very excited to delve into something not created by one of the big places. Astrological Year has done this a few times. This is the 11th edition, and it says they've had 10,000 plus calendars sold since their Kickstarter launch in 2015. So that's, you know, that's pretty good for a self-published thing. And these are beautiful.

Chelle: Yeah. The photos on here are watercolored. I look at them as moons, I guess.

Laylla: Are they the planets?

Chelle: Or maybe just the sky. Each astrological month has the pretty moon for that month.

Laylla: Yeah, let's start from the beginning here because these calendars are done a little bit differently than your typical January to December yearly calendar. This is an astrological year calendar, and it starts December 21st, 2026, and goes to December 20th, 2027. When you open it up, the first thing you see is the artwork, and every page is a round artwork that looks like a moon or a planet, and it's all watercolor. And on it, you'll see the stars of that particular zodiac sign. So it starts in the sign of Capricorn on December 21st till January 19th when Capricorn ends.

Chelle: Yes.

Laylla: So you have this beautiful Capricorn month with their zodiac sign in stars on this very pretty watercolor of their colors. And the month shows us, every month gives us all the astrological things that happen that month.

Chelle: It's, it's absolutely gorgeous, like you said. But I think what I like the most about it, you know, the first thing that caught my eye is it tells you when, in bright red, when Mercury is in retrograde. It tells you things like the moon is going into Capricorn, or Mercury is going into, into Aquarius. If you are an astrology buff, this is definitely the calendar for you.

Laylla: The artwork, it's absolutely beautiful, but simple enough that if I hang it in my office, it's not going to be too cluttered. It's just going to look nice. I really like it. And I kind of love that it's separated by sign instead of by month. It tweaks my brain a little bit, but I like it.

Chelle: I thought the same thing at first, too. It did tweak my brain, but I've always kind of been tweaked by, well, this astrological sign is still part of that month, and I'm looking at this month on the calendar. So this gives you a whole different perspective, I think, and I like it.

Laylla: Now, this calendar that was produced in Santa Cruz, California, does have your typical American holidays. You've got Martin Luther King Jr. Day, you've got New Year's Eve, you've got your holidays like Easter and Christmas are on here. I see that they have Palm Sunday and the beginning of Holi, Purim, Good Friday, the Qingming Festival. But what it doesn't have,

Chelle: What it does not have, though, is it does not have any pagan, witchcraft, or heathen-related holidays on it. That made me a little sad, but I get it.

Laylla: Right. It doesn't say that it's going to give those. It says it's an astrological year calendar, and it, it delivers that beautifully. That's absolutely what it is.

Chelle: And that's what it is.

Laylla: Yeah. So, so if that's what you're looking for, if you need to know the astrological changes and want a calendar that's very, very pretty, I would go with this one. It's very nice. I, I very much appreciate this calendar, and it will be hanging in my office.

Chelle: Grab onto your broomstick, witches. Back after these messages.

Chelle: Witches, guess what? We are coming to Salem. Laylla, tell them why we're coming.

Laylla: We have been invited by our friends at Pentagram to come down and read tarot.

Chelle: Ooh.

Laylla: So not only are we going to be visiting our favorite haunts in Salem, we're going to be slinging cards at one of our favorite shops.

Chelle: So if you happen to be in Salem October 5th, 6th, and 7th, stop on down to our absolute favorite shop, Pentagram shop. We will be there doing tarot. Come see us.

Laylla: Slots are going fast. So if you want to see us, stop in, say hi, get a selfie, we would love that. And if you'd like your cards read by Chelle or by Laylla, just give them a call, get an appointment, and we look forward to seeing you in Salem, Massachusetts.

Chelle: And to get that appointment booked, you want to give them a shout-out at 978-224-2925. Give Pentagram a call, tell them you want to hook up with Laylla and Chelle.

Laylla: So check us out in Salem if you want to have a witchy good time.

Chelle: And we will be there with our witchy hats.

Laylla: I have a few of those. I wasn't planning on wearing a hat, but I guess I, I will now.

Chelle: And we do appreciate, Wyatt, you sending them to us, and we totally think they're awesome. So if you are, if any of our listeners are interested, check them out at astrologicalyear.com.

Laylla: Actually been offered by the creator of this calendar, possibly maybe a giveaway or a discount code. So stay tuned for that.

Chelle: So what do we got up next?

Laylla: Well, let's stay on the same theme. Next, we've got The Book of Astrological Returns from Weiser Books by Theresa Reed. It's called The Book of Astrological Returns: Your Complete Guide to Every Life Cycle from the Sun to Pluto.

Chelle: Now, I was kind of taken aback at first because I'm used to Theresa Reed telling me about tarot.

Laylla: Tarot lady, right? Theresa Reed's the tarot lady.

Chelle: So to see this, I was immediately like, huh? Well, I'm obviously intrigued because it's Theresa Reed, but she's the tarot lady. How's this going to go?

Laylla: I had the same thought, but my second thought was, do you remember back when we were in our late 20s, everyone talking about our 29 return?

Chelle: I do. And I always wondered, why is it just at 29? And she literally had a line in the book that said, why does everybody stop caring about your Saturn return after your first one?

Laylla: Which is funny because, you know, as we're getting a little bit older, I've been thinking about having a workshop about getting ready for your second Saturn return, which comes roughly when you're about 58.

Chelle: We are not there yet, but, you know, hey, a lot of people in Gen X are heading in that direction. So, second Saturn return. So anyways, this is something that we have talked about in a very kind of superficial fashion with some of our astrology friends back in the day. So it was really interesting to dive into not just Saturn returns, but other types of astrological returns and how they can affect you.

Chelle: Now, we know that astrology is not my strong point, and so I was actually pretty flabbergasted on, on some of the information here. And that makes me want to point out that if, if you are not an astrology whiz, this book is very easy to follow. One of the pages I marked is literally right in the beginning, how to use this book, so I could keep going back to it because I'm not an astrology person. But, you know, she kind of guides you through creating your chart and seeing where all your planets are so that you can then plot out when they're kind of doing that return. And I don't know if I'm scared or excited with this information.

Laylla: As I was going through it, I was a little scared for you, to be honest, because it was hard for me. And you know sometimes I love how nerdy some of these things get, and I was glazing over a little bit. It, it's heavy.

Chelle: It's heavy, but I think if you take it slow and chunk it out, you can kind of follow along with it. I've definitely read more complex-sounding books. I'm not saying that their content was any better, but they just were harder to read than this. I think this is one of the easier things to read about a difficult subject.

Laylla: That's a good way to put it because it is dense. It has a lot of information. It's not too bad to read, but you do have to take your time with it. There's a lot there, and sometimes you have to go back over it a little bit.

Chelle: But that's okay because, I mean, especially for me, you know, this isn't something I'm, I'm super familiar with. So going over things multiple times doesn't hurt.

Laylla: And you know, actually, now that I think about it, when I read it with my chart, it was very different. Because when I just was reading through it, I'm like reading through everybody's sections. Like, for example, it says Mars in the eighth house, Mars in the ninth house, Mars in the tenth house. So I was reading all of those. But when I had my chart, I was just reading mine. Like, I would just go to which house my Mars was in and read. So it was a lot easier that way. So now that I think about it, with your chart in hand, it's definitely easier to read. Yeah, it's more of a reference for that.

Chelle: And, and I think that, you know, I wasn't, I guess, totally familiar on what all the returns meant, and, and this kind of walks you through that as well, which I appreciated.

Laylla: It does. And then it becomes a, a great workbook or a great lookup book for your own chart to see when your astrological returns will be.

Chelle: Oh, absolutely. I mean, there's, she's got stuff in here for every planetary return, you know, how you can read your own chart and your own returns, and kind of putting it all together. I mean, if you want to know about returns, I never thought I'd say Theresa Reed is a good person for astrology, but she is.

Laylla: Absolutely. I thought it was a very, very well-done book. I would definitely recommend it. Last but not least in our beautiful stack of books here, we have, from Weiser Books, Tarot of the Unconscious by Aliza Einhorn, uncovering the hidden link between psychoanalysis and the cards.

Chelle: This book, this book kind of threw me for a loop. I think my expectation and what it was were not necessarily the same, and that was my own fault.

Laylla: Yeah, and I, I didn't expect quite so much, I mean, it says psychoanalysis, so I knew there would be Freud in there, but I didn't realize it was going to be Freud all the way down.

Chelle: You know, she did kind of put in the beginning of this book, and I'm literally quoting this, that this book is a self-described love letter to Sigmund Freud and psychoanalysis, and this bitch was not kidding.

Laylla: Aliza is a, a very experienced tarot practitioner who works with the cards for psychoanalysis and talks about working with the cards from that viewpoint. And I wanted it to be a little bit more of how to work with the cards as a, not really self-help, but as a self-talk tool, as a way to peel back the layers and get in touch with your own unconscious.

Chelle: Yeah, like a psychological tool. Yeah, like a psychological tool.

Laylla: And I guess it was a little bit, but it really just seemed like the tarot cards through the eyes of Freud.

Chelle: I mean, there was a lot of, do not get me wrong, there was a lot of good information and a lot of good tidbits.

Laylla: I liked this book. I do. I like this book. I'm going to give it three brooms, but

Chelle: I felt like just when she was getting down a good road, she'd stop. You know, you were just left like, and there was a lot of, and my best advice to her is to write a part two.

Laylla: So I was really hoping that it was going to be a lot like Tarot for Change by Jessica Dore, and it, it wasn't. It's, again, very good, and I like it, but if you're looking for a great book on working with tarot to get in touch with yourself and, and from a very much of an introspective approach and a psychological approach, I highly recommend Tarot for Change by Jessica Dore. But Tarot of the Unconscious was a very good book, but a lot of Freud, but interesting, and, and I think it will give people a, a new way of looking at tarot, for sure.

Chelle: Yeah, you know, I kind of liked how, how she interjected a lot of her own personal experiences with tarot card interpretation. I don't know how many times she said it in the beginning, and I felt like it was my own mouth in, in my ear, just because you don't agree with the book doesn't make you wrong. You know, I, I do like where she's going with it, but if she didn't have to mention Freud every other sentence and dug a little deeper, it would have been fantastic.

Laylla: Yeah, it was definitely a good read, and I liked it. I will probably refer back to it for a couple of her takes on the cards because I very much liked it. But I, I think I just wanted it to be, this just seems like a slightly different view of looking at the cards and less of a way of working with the cards. I don't know. I guess I was just expecting it to be a little more, but it is a very good way of looking at the, at tarot cards. But I think it's more of, of that, less of a psychological workbook and more of a, this is a way to look at the cards from a psychoanalysis, Freudian point of view, I guess.

Chelle: No, that was my take on it, that if you're looking through the lens of Freud, this is how you use tarot. But I definitely personally hoped it would go a little deeper and not necessarily so focused on the man himself as opposed to tarot and the concepts.

Laylla: Yeah, definitely loved the part like you about relying on your own intuition and working with the symbols and the connections that your brain makes is very important, and this book definitely goes into that, and I love it for that. It's fantastic for that. Gives you a, a very interesting look on all the cards, for sure. So for that, three brooms.

Chelle: Absolutely.

Laylla: All right, so that is our stack of books and interesting things for right now, and all of our tea has been spilled. So maybe it's time to go feed the chickens and, uh, pick some cucumbers, I think.

Chelle: Well, and also, we got some reading to do because I checked the PO box, and we got a few more books. So we got another Solarium that'll be coming out in a few weeks, and can't wait to talk about more.

Laylla: You know, we've got a few things that were sent in by a couple other small businesses and some listeners, and I'm very excited to do reviews on all the lovely things that people have been sending into us. So thank you all. And thank you for the postcards and the gorgeous cards you guys have been sending to the PO box. Those freaking rock.

Chelle: We love them. Yeah, we love them.

Laylla: We love them. They're so pretty.

Chelle: They really are. I can't wait to put them together in new collages because we have enough now that we're going to make a little more art with all of it. It's fantastic. But thank you again, and definitely check into your local pagan prides or find one that's within driving distance. Definitely worth it. You never know who you're going to find. You might even find someone in your own backyard. But go, have a great time, meet, make connections, and see us next time on Back on the Broomstick.

Chelle: Keep it witchy.
