Welcome to Back on the Broomstick, a modern witches' spoken word grimoire, where two witchy friends from way back are reconnecting to their pagan roots after a long period of mundanity. We're rewalking the path of the wise and trying out all the latest spells, rituals, and magical theory in today's witchcraft and pagan practices. So grab your wand and your incense, your cauldron and your crystals, and join us as we get back on the broomstick.

Hi, and welcome to the Solarium, Shell and Laylla's warm and cozy witchy sanctuary, where the tea is always hot, the cannabis flows freely, and the scary stories abound in the firelight. Wishing you a merry Yule and a blessed winter solstice, I'm Laylla.

And I'm Shell, and I hope you guys are having the most wonderful festive season right now. Because right now I'm being a little festive, and I have to bring this up real quick before we get into the whole Yule and and ghost stories and Solarium business.

Okay, you're going to take a left turn this early in the episode? How very unlike you, Shell.

I know. I know.

What you got?

I got a witchy weed story for you. So, I got a a witchy friend here locally, and she gave me something that I am smoking today.

You got a weed gift for Yule?

I did get a weed gift.

Nice.

It's a Gelato.

Those are some of my favorites. I love those.

I didn't know what kind. I just remember that she said Gelato and didn't catch the rest of the piece and feel too stupid to text her and ask her what kind, but I know it's a Gelato.

And you taste that it's a Gelato?

Can I just tell you, like, I feel like I can I I even said this to my love last night. I'm like, "I feel like I can taste the crystals."

Nice. Nice. That's one of my favorite things about Gelatos is they have a very high terpene content, and they usually are very, very tasty. So, yes, I do like a decent THC, but unlike our THC size queen over here, I prefer I'll go for taste and terpenes over the super high THC.

But I do have a confession. I have a Solarium confession, and do not tell anybody.

Here in the Solarium is a safe space. You can say whatever you want, and and no one here in this wonderful sanctum of secrecy and magic would ever, ever betray a trust. So, feel free. Go ahead. What you got?

I was just doing stuff and pack with it.

Oh, oh, that's okay. That's fine. It's a Gelato. You can do that. Everything's Okay, cuz for a second I thought you were going to start judging me. Nah. Not with a Gelato. They're so tasty you can stuff and pack those all day long.

Yeah, I didn't No No breaking this up. No, you know, making it in the No, I just stuff and pack, stuff and pack.

Yeah, it's usually got really, really good resin, nice and sticky and tasty.

And see, here's the best part is that her and her love actually grow it. He's a He's a certified grower.

Someone gave you homegrown Gelato for Yule? They like you. They must really like you.

Like I said, her love is a certified grower, so like, he knows what he's He's like your level of grow. So, I was actually surprised at the wonderful crystal tastiness of this all, but very bright green, um, definitely not a dark green, a very bright, tasty, delicious, and you know I generally like my citrusy flavor ones. This isn't citrusy flavor, but I love it. I love it.

Yeah, different terpene profile. I think pinene and limonene are some of the ones that you like, and I believe that, um, Gelatos are high in, uh, beta-caryophyllene and the pepper one that I can't think of right now. She's got some lenes in it. That's all you need to know. Oh, it's myrcene. Myrcene's the peppery one that I forgot.

Every hit I've taken off of it, I've thought of you.

Well, thank you. You know, and I heard that compliment in there, so thank you very much. I appreciate it. I haven't grown in a minute, and I miss it. But right now, my brother is growing, and he has a cultivar that he's been calling Finger Lakes Purp, I believe he's calling Finger Lakes Purp. Quite delicious, and he's doing pretty good. He had some trouble in the beginning. We all do. Growing's a learning curve. But, uh, yeah, a little purpley, nice, and it's tasty. It's tasty.

Like, does it look purple?

It does. It does. There's a little purple to it. You know, it's not one of those full purple strains where you look at it and you're like, "Oh, that looks like one of those purple"

Well, I hate when they say it's purple something and then it's green as shit.

No, this is definitely green, but it has distinct purple traces through it. You can see the purple for sure.

Mmm, sounds tasty.

It is very good. But the reason I'm going a little lighter on the cannabis today is because I need to pay attention for my stories. I have some ghost stories.

Ooh, I love a good ghost story.

When we first started doing Yule episodes was way back when we were recording the Stone Witches Hour.

Stone Witches Hour, love it.

And you, Shell, told me at that time that ghost stories used to be traditional around Christmas time. And that, of course, had me go down a rabbit hole. You know, there's that song that says, "There'll be scary ghost stories and tales of the glories of Christmases long, long ago."

"It's the Most Wonderful Time of the Year" song, yeah.

So, it's right there. It was under our noses the whole time, but I didn't know. So, yeah, it was definitely a tradition, and I think it was a lot of There's a lot of sweets in Christmas. You get gifts. You're giving things to people. So, I think we like to kind of remember the darker underbelly as well to keep that balance. You have to have your Krampus with your Santa.

I was going to say, we always talk about, as it relates differently to magic and witchcraft, you know, the yin and the yang, the light and the dark, the positive, the negative, you know, you have to have that balance. Well, guess what? You also have to have that balance with Yule. So, you got Santa Claus, who's taking care of all the kids that were nice, and then you got Krampus taking care of all the kids that were naughty. I spent a couple Christmases with Krampus as a kid.

I think I spent this year with Krampus. Actually, I'm going to take a quick segue for just a moment because I've also heard rumors that some people equate Odin to Santa Claus, and we've talked about that a little bit. Because Odin does his great hunt. There's the idea that from Samhain until Yule, the dead are roaming the land. All the recently deceased, their spirits are still here. And right around the winter solstice, that's when Odin, in his great hunt, rounds up all the souls that are still here, that are lingering this side of the veil, and rides with them across the sky with his sleigh being pulled by reindeer, I think, or goats, maybe. No, that's Thor that gets pulled by goats. But his sleigh across the sky in this great hunt rounding up the spirits on the earth. So, that's a ghost story, right? And he takes them to the other side of the veil. And I have started working with Odin a little bit, and holy cow, some of our listeners, I got sent an amulet that I didn't recognize as an amulet of Odin's at first, and it's just beautiful. And just today, just today, before we recorded this, someone sent me specifically absolutely gorgeous blue One of my favorite, favorite colors in the world is blue. Everything in my house, I swear, is like blue and green. And she sent the Helm of Awe spinner ornament. Again, blue and white. It's absolutely stunning. And she said it's for my Norse tree, which I don't know how she knew I now have a Norse tree, but here we are. I barely started working with Odin, and here come all these Norse things, and it's kind of wild how when you start working with an energy or a deity, things just kind of start showing up. It's very magical. And I love how he's associated with Christmas and with Yule and with the solstice, and it's pretty interesting. It's, you know, once these things start happening, Shell, you know with Hecate, they just start coming.

Come in waves. Come in waves.

They do. So, thank you, guys, for kind of, uh, being that bearer of Odin's omens to me because that's kind of interesting. I love it. So, segue over.

I I I just got to piggyback on your segue for a quick second, and I can't let you do all the thanking without putting in my own two cents. Dori, I love the Krampus ornament, and thank you, thank you, thank you. Thank you.

That's Dori.

Okay, scare me. I'm already scare me.

So, ghost stories are part of the season, the spirits, the dead are here, and we need a little Krampus scary with our Santa sweet. So, for my stories, I have four of them today.

Overachiever.

You know how I like ghost stories.

You do.

Well, I couldn't pick just one. I did not do a Lady in White, even though I do adore them.

Oh, thank God.

I did haunted dolls.

Ooh.

I have four of the most haunted dolls to talk about today, starting from the first haunted doll to ever be sold on eBay, Harold the Haunted Doll.

If I knew they were selling haunted dolls on eBay, I sure as hell would be on eBay a whole lot more.

Go on eBay, woman, because there are hundreds, if not thousands, of supposedly haunted dolls. So, you'd need to go on there, and you'll need to use your witchy senses as you scroll through because, okay, between you and me, I think a couple of those haunted dolls might not be haunted.

No.

Yeah, I know. I know. It's hard to believe that someone would tempt fate like that and put out a not haunted doll.

And on the other hand, Chucky could be showing up at your door.

No, let's please, please, out of law, out of law, let's not invite this. Let's not invite I was a little creeped out because we have four dolls. We're going to talk about Harold the Doll, Peggy the Doll, Robert the Doll, that you know all about, Shell.

I do.

And last and creepiest and maybe the most murdery, Annabelle the Doll.

I have some opinions on Annabelle, so I can't wait for this.

As I was researching these doll stories, I had some weird stuff happen. And most recently, Shell, tell the listeners, when we first started talking as we were getting ready to record, what happened?

You know, you were It was almost like this trippy, wavy, like right out of Woodstock music video kind of thing. You were waves like the ocean, and it was making me giggle.

My computer was glitching. Our audio and video feed was glitching and freezing.

Mine wasn't. It was all you.

If it was my internet, I usually get a notification that the internet is causing problems. I did not get that this time. Also, the entire time I was researching these dolls, my daughter and I both started having terrible headaches, just out of the blue. And also, the clove incident that I talked about last episode where I over-cloved my my simmer pot by accident and nearly caused a chemical incident in my kitchen, yeah, that happened at the same time I was researching Harold.

Little segue, partially related. You know that my daughter recently, um, bought a house?

Yes. The house that has Clara, your ghost, in it.

So, I went back for Thanksgiving, and my daughter hands me this box, and she's like, "I found this stuff of yours in the attic. Take it home with you." And I'm like, "Okay." So, I take the box. I bring the box home. You know, I have faith that my daughter knows my stuff, even my childhood stuff, and that my mother would have gotten rid of other stuff otherwise. So, I didn't even look in the box. I bring the box home. So, there is a damn creepy doll in it.

No, really?

This was not my doll as a child.

No way. No way.

I have never seen this doll before, and I am now in possession of a doll that came from my childhood house. Don't know what the hell to tell you, but my daughter thought it was mine and gave it to me, and now I have this weird And it's one of the ones, you know, it's one of those like dolls from like the early '80s where the eyes open and close with the fake plastic eyelashes.

It's kind of bizarre. So, it's funny that you're having this doll thing, and literally less than a month ago, my daughter gave me this wacky doll. But I will say that I immediately put it in my storage unit for lack of space where I am right now. So, it's not like it's in my vicinity in case it is haunted. Now, because I'm going to come see you in a couple weeks, now I'm going to have to Bring it. my storage unit and dig out this damn doll.

Oh, my gosh, we need to I have not been able to get good audio of our haunted cemetery trip, so we need pictures of your haunted doll.

Okay, I will go get the doll and bring it when I come to you.

Very cool. Awesome. Well, I picked dolls because, first of all, they're creepy as fuck. And secondly, you know, it's Christmas. You know, you get your little dolly for Christmas.

Oh, so what you're saying is every kid, every girl in 1985 that got that creepy ass doll with the velvet dresses on, yeah, I know what you're talking about.

Yeah, they're all creepy as fuck.

They really are.

I figured talking about dolls was very seasonally appropriate.

Okay, now tell me how they're going to kill me.

Yeah, these are pretty murdery dolls, pretty murdery. How about you? What's your What's your ghost story going to be?

Okay, mine isn't necessarily a ghost story. You know how I like to go towards beings, creatures, cryptids. So, I've definitely spent some time on the Yule Cat. I've spent some time with Krampus. So, tonight I am going to talk about Frau Perchta, Perchta. Frau Perchta. Evil witch kind of the the old hag in the woods kind of projection that Disney put out there. Very similar to that, yeah.

Oh, interesting. All right, very cool. So, we have a witch from folklore that has to do something with the solstice or Christmas, and four creepy freaking dolls. So, since I am an overachiever, I will start with two of my dolls.

I'm so glad that this is going to turn into a part two when I bring this doll to you.

Oh, my gosh, I'm so excited about that. Now Now I actually hope it's haunted.

We've made it through the longest night. This is now the shortest day. And after this, after this day when when this episode first airs, now the days are going to start to get longer. Hopefully, that will help you when you get really, really scared and creeped out over these dolls because I got creeped out, I'm just saying. We're going to start with Harold the Doll.

Harold. He's already pissed because he was named Harold.

Harold has the distinction of being the very first haunted doll sold on eBay.

What year?

I believe it was 2003. It was the early 2000s. According to internet legend, the original owner of Harold the Doll bought the doll for their son. And he bought it for him when he was born, and unfortunately, his son only lived for a couple years.

Aww.

When his child passed away, he put Harold the Doll in a storage unit.

Oh, shit. Now you're really starting to creep me out now that I told you I put this doll in the storage unit.

Oh, yeah, it gets worse. This isn't the first time Harold's been in a storage unit. And Harold does not like to be disrespected. So, we need to be nice to Harold. Supposedly, Harold sat in this shed for about 60 years, and then the gentleman decided he could finally part with this doll of his son's. So, he sold it at a garage sale for $20.

Okay, makes sense.

After he sold it, he ran down to the guy who bought it from him and said, "I'm sorry I sold it to you. I didn't mean to. I actually have to tell you that the reason I put it in the shed after my son died is because we kept hearing the doll singing and talking."

Oh, shit.

"We'd go into my son's room, and the doll would have moved places." We kept hearing noises coming from the room that the doll was in. He didn't say any of this to the guy before he sold him the doll. Here, wait, let me take your money first. Yeah, right? So, then he says he brought in a priest, and they tried to burn the doll, and it wouldn't burn. So, that's when he decided to get rid of it. So, the guy's like, "Yeah, okay, I still want the doll," and left.

That would totally be us.

Absolutely. We'd be like, "Oh, I want it more." So, then this takes it home, tells his wife about it, and then shit starts going bad. I shouldn't laugh. Everyone in the house started having chronic migraines, like literally within days of buying the doll. They started hearing children's voices in the basement where the doll was kept, laughter, crying.

What kind of doll was this? Was this one of those porcelain dolls, or was it like a stuffy?

Harold the Doll has porcelain head, hands, and feet and a stuffed body, but he's naked other than that. And he has like the eyes that open and close.

God, I hate those.

Now, supposedly, when his eyes would open, people would get sick. And the gentleman who bought the doll from the person who originally had it said his cat even died shortly after they brought the doll there.

Oh, shit.

Yeah. And so, the doll would change rooms. It was bad. So, he put it in a box, an armadillo box, and kept it in his basement, and then finally decided, "This is too much. I can't handle it anymore. I have to get rid of it." And that's when he put it on eBay.

Disaster after disaster.

Right? And it was listed as haunted doll, no returns. And said you had to ask questions before bidding. The person who originally won it won it for $700, but she didn't pay because she said she was having trouble before she ever got the doll.

There's your sign.

The second person got it for $300 and then sold it almost immediately because of the hauntings and problems that were happening. So, she sold it immediately to a friend. That friend heard about the strange things but didn't care. Within a month, got a brain tumor and supposedly died.

Oh, shit.

Then, another friend took the doll, and he fell downstairs to his death.

Oh, shit.

So, at least two deaths have been attributed to Harold the Doll. Now, other owners have said this doll moves around, they hear the children, they've locked it away. Anyone who comes into contact with the doll, they say anything me, if they take his picture, if they do anything negative, they get headaches, they get migraines. Some people say that this doll is cursed and that there are spirits trapped in the doll. It was purchased in 2004 by a gentleman named Anthony Quinata, who's a psychic and a paranormal investigator. He has been trying to investigate Harold the Doll ever since, and he does say that unless the doll is wrapped up and put away, people get sick, they get headaches, and bad things happen. So, that's Harold.

Well, why doesn't someone ask Harold why he's mad?

I think they have. There's a lot of different stories, but supposedly he's haunted by a demon, uh, maybe a demon killed the child that he was given to and then went into the doll. Maybe he's inhabited by five different spirits. But apparently, Anthony Quinata is trying to get to the bottom of it. And interestingly, when I was searching around online to try and find information, this is one of the few dolls that does not have a Wiki page.

Interesting.

And a lot of the pages associated with this particular doll, I had to use the Wayback Machine so that I could see them because they're no longer available on the internet.

Interesting.

It was weird. It was very weird. And some people say when they look at pictures of Harold, even just looking at his picture, so caution if you're going to look him up, people will say that just looking at pictures of Harold the Doll is enough to make you feel physically ill or give you a headache.

You know damn well I'm going to Google that.

You'll have to tell us. Tell us what happens.

I will. I will.

The first time I looked at Harold the Doll, at a picture of Harold, that was when I first started having trouble with my computer. Now, granted, my computer is very old and is on its last legs, so coincidence? I don't know. The next time I looked at a picture was just before I got on to record with you, and that's when we were having trouble recording. So, maybe, maybe not. You'll have to let me know if you have any issues.

Interesting. Interesting.

The second doll I'm very interested in because this doll, I think all of these, but this one was featured on an episode of one of my favorite podcasts, And That's Why We Drink. This episode has a warning attached to it.

Ooh.

Because if you listen to the Peggy the Doll episode, people apparently get sick, physically, violently sick. And it's enough of a phenomenon that it's written about. You can find it. If you look up Peggy the Doll and And That's Why We Drink, you'll see story after story after story of why people won't listen to that episode.

Interesting. And I've never heard of Peggy the Doll, so this is actually a brand new one for me.

Well, Peggy the Doll is one of the most haunted dolls in the world. Supposedly, this doll was causing the owner nightmares, fevers, and hallucinations. No matter where the doll was put in the house, it would move, and they couldn't stop the nightmares.

Oh.

Peggy's claim to fame is just looking at her will make you sick, that she's going to cause nausea and general discomfort. People report computer issues when near Peggy or when researching Peggy, computer screens freezing, sense of dread, and terrible, terrible headaches. Jane Harris is one of her original owners, and Jane is a British paranormal investigator, has collected over 80 cases of people who have had physical symptoms after looking at photos or videos of Peggy.

Ooh.

Other people will actually have visions when they see Peggy. What they all describe is the same type of thing, and it's usually mental institutions, walking down the hallways of mental institutions. They'll all describe very, very similar things.

Similar things. Interesting.

And haunted dreams and terrible dreams, nightmares of being in a mental institution, of torture, feeling hot and shaken and and just feeling physically sick are very common. Again, this one investigator has over 80 cases of people feeling physically ill. She's been studied by psychic mediums. She's been on a lot of different shows, and they think that Peggy is haunted by a woman who was born in 1946 in London and who died of some type of chest condition, maybe asthma or maybe influenza or something that got into her lungs, maybe pneumonia. And this woman apparently hated clowns, which is an important fact. They say she's very restless, possibly has ties to the Holocaust, may have been a Jewish woman who was killed. They're not sure, but she is very tormented, and just looking at this doll is enough to cause people to have problems. Other people will say that when they look at the doll, the light bulbs in their room will go out or will explode. And if you ask Peggy nicely to stop bothering you, she usually will. So, being nice to her helps.

So, where is she now?

This woman, Jane Harris, acquired Peggy the Doll from its original owner when the owner couldn't handle the paranormal activity any longer. And Jane is the one that did the original research on Peggy the Doll. In 2016, the show Deadly Possessions with Zak Bagans did an investigation on the doll, and he was so impressed with how haunted Peggy the Doll was that he purchased the ghostly item and brought it to the USA, and she is now located at his Haunted Museum in Las Vegas, where she is continuing her terrifying streak of hauntings and negative effects. But prior to Zak having Peggy, Jane was determined to get to the bottom of why Peggy was so haunted and caused so many paranormal events. So, she did a lot of tests, including using pendulums and seances and took copious notes. And during one session where she took a bunch of notes and then left for the evening, when she came back the next day to check her notes, the book was gone. When she did find it, it was in a different room up in the rafters of the ceiling where she couldn't reach. Her husband had to use a ladder to get up to get to it.

It's really interesting how all these haunted dolls seem to end up in the hands of paranormal investigators. I guess my question is, why didn't you call a witch in in the first place to ask the doll what the problem was?

I think people's go-to is usually a priest.

Not my go-to.

Not my go-to either. But a lot of these people are Christian, and so I think rather than going to someone who might be an expert, the movies tell them that priests are the ones that you go to. Some of these dolls have had movies made about them.

Seriously, if I had a haunted doll, you are my first phone call.

Right? Exactly. And that's why you're bringing the doll from your storage unit so we can handle it together.

Exactly.

Yeah. But I think that paranormal investigators, they at the very least are familiar with how to handle these objects. You know, they know how to sense the energy, how to look at it and say, "Oh, that's just a creepy old doll that looks gross." It's not really haunted. It just makes you feel bad. Or it really does have some type of spirit in it. But it's a weird enough occurrence that I think people just don't know where to turn, and unfortunately, the possibility of getting a fraud or someone who's just out to make a buck is very high. And that's how you get people like the Warrens, who may or may not be on the up and up. Or sometimes you get a priest who may or may not know what they're doing when working with energy. And so, they think that just calling in Jesus and saying, you know, "Go away in the name of Jesus," is enough. And sometimes, sure, that'll work, but not always. You got to attack these things from multiple angles, and I don't necessarily think these priests are open-minded enough or well-versed enough to know really what they're getting into.

Probably not.

No. So, yeah. So, a lot of people do end up sticking them in storage units, which, you know, it made me laugh when you said that's what you did with yours because, you know, you want it out of your space. They move around. They do creepy things. They they make noises.

See, I'm already on the right track. I took it right from New York to the storage unit.

Right. Exactly. Smart witchy thing to do. Put it immediately in a place not where you sleep.

Exactly.

And in a steel box. Very smart.

Well, this isn't in a steel box, but we'll find out. That yet to be determined if it needs one.

The storage unit itself is like

Well, yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay, you're right. You're right.

Now that you've kind of got me creeped out about this doll I am now in possession of, I'm going to switch gears a little bit and talk about a a Alpine goddess figure.

Ooh.

Frau Perchta is considered to be an Alpine winter goddess, mostly deriving from Germanic folklore, which immediately made me think of our friend Christian Brunner because in my mind he's the Alpine witch.

Yes. And Krampus and the Yule Cat.

Right. Right. Speaking of Krampus and the Yule Cat, I mean, yeah, the Yule Cat will eat you.

Only if you don't have new clothes.

After the first crunch, you don't feel a thing. Krampus, you know, he's just going to whip you. But they consider Frau Perchta a terrifying Alpine winter goddess. She's known as the belly slitter.

Ouch.

This is crazy. So, what they would say is during the 12 days of Yule, she would roam the countryside and enter homes during, you know, the 12 days, um, between Christmas and Epiphany, but especially on the 12th night. And she would know, much like Santa, you know how Santa has his list, naughty and nice.

Mmhmm.

She has her list too. She would know whether the children or young servants of the household had behaved or worked hard all year. If they had, similar to Santa Claus, you know, they might find an orange or a nut or a small silver coin, you know, in their stocking or what have you. But if they were bad, this is this is where she puts Krampus and the Yule Cat to shame. She would slit their bellies open, remove their stomach and guts, and stuff the hole with straw and pebbles.

Ah, that sounds awful. I would prefer not to have that happen, thank you.

She would also slit their bellies open and stuff them with straw if they ate something on the night of her feast day other than the traditional meal of fish and gruel.

Eww, really?

So, it's be It's basically like when you go to your aunt's house and she's serving some sort of weird, gross concoction, and your mother says, "Eat it or die." Like, that was a legit threat.

If you even sneak a little bit of something yummy to tide you over, belly slit.

Belly slit.

Belly slit. No, that's terrible. Oh, my goodness. No, I like food way too much for this goddess. No, no, that sounds awful.

That that is kind of mean. But I'm like, why would you stuff them with straw and stones? Are you trying to weigh them down?

Why couldn't her traditional food be something delicious like tacos or pizza or something yummy? I mean, oh, my gosh.

Kind of in a shape-shifter fashion, they do say that um she can be dual nature, and for those that carried their weight throughout the year and were good, she can be beautiful and a bright figure. But for those who had not been good, she can be a grotesque old crone with fangs and an iron nose with a tattered cloak. And they also say that when she would open her cloak wide, the ghosts of naughty children basically filled the back of her cloak.

Oh, damn. She sounds terrifying. That's awful. Step back, Elf on the Shelf. Frau Perchta's here with her ghost children in a cloak. Be good. Be good, kids.

Her other big thing is that she did not like anybody spinning during the 12 days of Christmas. So, you know,

Like twirling, or like spinning thread?

Like back back back in, you know, when you're talking hundreds of years ago, like spinning thread, you know, the spinning wheel. Basically, they needed to work, but not spinning thread was her thing.

Oh, I see. So, all your spinning had to be done by Christmas Eve, or you were in trouble.

Correct. And that's when you got your belly stuffed with rocks and straw.

That sounds awful. I do not like this. So, she's like a secondary Santa Claus that, uh, might murder you if you're bad.

Yeah, but here's the weird catch to all of this. So, they say that Frau Perchta is believed to have descended from an ancient Germanic goddess, but they link her to Freya. No one told me that Freya's going to stuff my belly with rocks and straw if I don't toe the line.

Interesting. I wonder if that's why part of the time she's beautiful, you know, because she's beautiful like Freya half the time.

Maybe maybe when she's in a good mood, she's in her Freya mood. I don't know.

I don't know. That's like me. I'm in a good mood, I'm beautiful, I'm divine. I'm in a bad mood, and I have ghosts in my cloak, I guess.

But she would provide abundant blessings for those who had done their share. She was kind of like a follow tradition, follow rules, this is what you're supposed to do, so do it because you're supposed to. She was kind of the person that that kept people in line with that mindset. If you did what you were supposed to do all year and you did all the work you were supposed to do, you were doubly blessed by her. But if you didn't, you were doubly fucked.

Other than doing all your chores, was there anything that people would leave out for Frau Perchta?

I didn't really find anything. It really kind of seems like you just need to be good, kids. Just be good.

Yeah, I mean, with all the creepy-crawlies out to get you if you're bad, Frau Perchta, Krampus, the Yule Cat, I mean, you got a lot of incentive there.

Yeah, I mean, obviously, people are going to leave out offerings like, you know, food or drink or marijuana, whatever is sacred to you. But, really, it was all about checking your chores and ensuring that you were feasting properly in her honor by way of fish and gruel.

Fish and gruel does not sound like feasting properly in anyone's honor. That's awful. That sounds like torture. Nobody wants fish and gruel for Yule. She's mean. Frau Perchta's mean. You had to ensure a full stomach to avoid her wrath, man. You know, at least the Nisse wanted rice pudding and butter. That's That's at least tastier.

Now, this is I am going to bring up my last point about her that I need you to research and circle back to all of us folks at a future date.

All right, what's that?

Some things I have found link her to the Wild Hunt leading an army of spirits through the winter night with thunder signaling their passage. So, it almost sounds like your Odin story.

Well, I guess if she is linked to Freya, that would make sense that she's also with Odin for the Wild Hunt for that night.

Yeah, so be good. That's all I can say because rocks and straw, that's got to be painful.

Yeah, yeah, exactly. And you don't want to get caught up in the Wild Hunt. As fun as that sounds, it's not a good time. People usually hid in their houses and closed up their doors to make sure that they did not get caught up in the Wild Hunt.

And you know, and I think that's maybe the distinction that I've kind of always had in my mind between the veil being thin at Samhain and the veil being thin at Yule is at Samhain, it's more that communication, and at Yule, just be careful you don't get caught up.

Yeah, Yule is more about saying goodbye, I think. There's that communication. Now it's time for them to go to rest. Thank you, we love you. It's the blessings of of the beloved dead. It's honoring them and and the year and putting all of that to rest.

So, I guess the moral of the story is do not piss off Frau Perchta. Do your chores, eat your fish and gruel, and be good to each other. Love each other.

And speaking of restless or unrestless dead, I have two more creepy doll stories.

I really want to go to my storage unit tonight and get this doll now.

Okay, so the next one I want to talk about, Shell, you talked about, and I will link the episode for our Stone Witches Hour podcast where you talked about Robert the Doll.

Robert.

So, if I'm missing anything, Shell, you jump right in with any facts.

I got you.

All right, cool. Robert the Doll served as the inspiration for Chucky in Child's Play.

Ha ha ha ha ha ha.

Robert was given to his young owner, a gentleman named Jean Otto. And there's a couple different stories. One is that his father gave it to him, and the other is that their Haitian maid gave Robert to young Jean Otto.

Can I interject a little factoid?

Go right ahead. I know what you're going to say. Go ahead.

His name was actually Robert too. It was Robert Jean.

They called him Jean, but his first name was Robert. That is correct. Now, here's the weird thing. I'm so glad you mentioned that the name was the same because he even dressed the doll in his old clothes. This is one of those big dolls. Robert, Jean was given Robert the Doll when he was 4 years old.

And I think at that point it was It was like life-size to him at that age. So, it was a bigger doll.

Robert the Doll is about 3 feet tall. Stands 3 feet tall. And he was dressed in one of Jean's sailor uniforms, his actual clothes.

Creepy as hell just to begin with.

Creepy as fuck. So, Jean started carrying Robert all over the house, everywhere. You know, as kids do, and they would play together. This is his little friend, his little buddy. But when he would get in trouble, he started saying, "Robert did it."

Yeah.

"It was Robert." And then, he would start making Robert talk in like a weird voice. And this didn't stop. A little bit of this is normal kid stuff. Right, right. Jean never grew out of this. He kept Robert his whole life. He even built a room in the attic for Robert.

Yeah.

He gave Robert toys and furniture and silverware. He even kept this doll after he was married.

Yeah. It almost progressed as a child from his best friend to almost like his child that he was caretaking. Like he treated it like it was an actual living being, yeah.

And supposedly, when Jean was still younger, there would be incidents like a whole room full of furniture knocked over that Robert supposedly had done. Or silverware scattered all over the house. And again, "Robert did it." Now, I know that little kids, trust me, I know how much damage a 4 to 7-year-old can do. But some of it seemed a little improbable for a small child to do, and he said, "Robert did it."

Robert did it.

His relationship with Robert continued to be very creepy, and he continued to blame mishaps on the doll. Kids going past this house where Jean lived with his wife and Robert in the attic said that they could sometimes see Robert in the window.

Creepiest hell.

People who would go to the house sometimes would think that they would hear giggling and footsteps upstairs. Now, after Jean passed away, the person who purchased the house said that Robert the Doll was too much for them, that the weird occurrences in the house was a little much. There was too many antics. It was too creepy. She donated the doll to a local museum. He now lives in the Fort East Martello Museum in Key West, Florida, where he has lived since his second owner donated him there due to too many strange and creepy things happening in the house, including people continuing to see him in the windows. Since he's been at the museum, Robert has caused all sorts of mishaps. And I can tell you on a jump in with something, go ahead.

No, I was just going to say, I mean, this legitimately, like we joked in the beginning, but they they did model Chucky, the killer doll, after Robert. So, not that not that their stories are exactly the same, but when you think of Chucky, that that was inspired by Robert.

If you take Robert's picture or if you are rude to Robert in any way when you go visit him, something terrible will happen. He has been known to cause car crashes, broken bones, people have gotten divorced after taking his picture, they have lost their jobs, they have had pets die, houses burned down, and so much more. People will send in letters after visiting the doll asking his forgiveness and describing what terrible occurrence happened after they took his photo without asking permission. This has even extended to the Travel Channel. The Travel Channel was doing a special on Robert the Doll and video recorded him without asking permission.

That was their first mistake.

Their camera died, and it would not start working until they verbally apologized to Robert the Doll.

This is Travel Channel.

Can you just imagine some like big Hollywood executive producer, "Robert, Robert, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Just let us do this documentary, please."

So, in addition to letters that he gets sent every single day begging his forgiveness and asking him to stop having misfortunes befall them, they also get gifts. People think that Robert has a sweet tooth, so in order to appease him, they'll send candy and sweets. They will also send money and sometimes joints. The museum curator says they do not consume anything, including the joints, for safety reasons. They're a museum. They don't do that.

I would totally consume the joints. I'm not going to lie.

So would I. But, yeah, so, uh, that is Robert the Doll. Now, the last one, the most creepy one, has been in the news very, very recently for a tragedy that they say is not related to her in any way. But, of course, people are saying that it is anyway.

I know the story of this doll thoroughly, and I also kind of really followed closely the tragedy, uh, that most recently happened. And I'm going to let you go into what that is, but I am going to say, this'll be the one time where I probably will say, I don't think the doll was involved.

Yeah, I don't think so either. I think this is a terrible coincidence. But Annabelle the Doll is an unassuming Raggedy Ann-looking doll. Unlike the other dolls, she looks like a doll. The other three dolls kind of look like um like human babies or I mean, Robert the Doll is more stuffed and has a sewn face, but even he kind of looks like a person.

But this is like that traditional Raggedy Ann and Andy doll, yeah.

You're expecting because of, you know, some of the The Conjuring, I think, was, uh, made about her.

Yeah.

You see that doll, and it's creepy-looking. It does not look like Raggedy Ann.

No.

So, she doesn't look creepy, but she's terrifying. Annabelle started because in the 1970s, a woman gave the doll to her daughter, Donna, who at the time was a 28-year-old nursing student. This was in Connecticut. She'd gotten the doll at a hobby store and gave it to her daughter as a birthday present. Donna was going to graduate from nursing school and lived in an apartment with her roommate, Angie. Shortly after getting this doll, Annabelle, weird things started happening in the apartment. The first was that the doll never seemed to stay put. They'd put the doll on a shelf, they'd come home, it would be on the couch. They'd put her on a table, she'd be on a counter. It kept moving. Sometimes it would even be found upright standing on its feet. Sometimes she'd find it in her room on her bed with the door closed.

I would die. I would literally die.

And so, this paranormal activity started to escalate. As you know, from all sorts of things that we have researched, it usually does start out small, and then as you start paying attention to it and tensions and fear starts happening,

It snowballs.

So, this escalated. They started finding notes written around the house.

The thing that kills me with Annabelle is like the other dolls look creepy and they look deranged. Annabelle looks sweet.

She looks normal. She looks sweet. She looks like a Raggedy Ann doll.

Yeah.

She started leaving notes to, I think it was either a friend or fiance of one of the two women, uh, Lou. Annabelle didn't like Lou at all. And so, things would escalate whenever Lou would come over to the apartment. They had a psychic come over to investigate the doll and had a seance. And the psychic said that the doll was inhabited by the soul of a young girl who had died where those apartments had been built when she was 7 years old.

Oh, that's shitty.

The girl's name was Annabelle Higgins. And Annabelle said she wanted to stay there with those girls and just be loved. She just wanted someone to care for her. So, the girls gave her permission to live in the doll.

Oh, god. I see your face. I see your face. I'm just like, "Why?"

So, after that, of course, it got worse, including they said the doll started leaking blood on occasion. Lou got pissed off, even more upset, and these notes started saying danger, help me. And Lou, whenever he would stay there, would have nightmares. And he was determined to get the girls to get rid of this doll. He said Annabelle was not nice, that she was evil. He says one night he fell asleep on the couch, and he woke up, he had that like um sleep paralysis.

Mmhmm.

And he thinks he was dreaming, maybe, but saw Annabelle at his feet start sliding up his leg.

Oh, lord. Oh, lord.

Glide over his chest and then start strangling him.

Oh, my god.

He said he was asphyxiated, paralyzed, and blacked out.

Oh, my god.

He woke up the next morning and was absolutely certain that it was not a dream and that they needed to get rid of this doll.

Oh, it probably wasn't a dream, my friend.

He also got attacked. He supposedly had claw marks on his back from Annabelle. The girls contacted another priest and a psychic, who contacted the Warrens.

That's all I'm going to say about that.

The Warrens came in and got involved and said that Annabelle was possessed by a demon. So, the girls gave the doll over to Ed and Lorraine Warren, and they took the doll back to their house. On the drive back to their house, they almost got in a car crash, and they also continued to have supernatural events. So, they put Annabelle in a glass case and said to leave her alone. And, of course, people visiting continued to have problems and issues with the doll. After Ed and Lorraine Warren passed, the doll, as well as a lot of other contents, passed to other people. Um, I'm actually starting to feel really sick, to be honest. I'm not joking even a little bit. I feel like I'm about to I need to go. I'm going to I'll text you.

Okay.

Like, what the fuck was that?

I'm going to say it's a coincidence.

You you can call it a coincidence all you want. You and I have recorded literally hundreds of podcast episodes.

Yes.

And not one time

Never.

have you literally had to just be like, "I'm sick. I got to go," click off. Like, never.

Never. Never. Even when you've been sick, you've never

No. So, a couple things. What just happened is as I was talking about Annabelle, I started feeling physically sick.

And your face was getting bright red. Like, I could see it. Like, like you got that look of, "I am going to throw up my cookies right now."

I was trying to fight it. I was hoping it would go away, but it just kept ramping up. You know when you feel like you're going to get sick, but you just trying to get through, and it just getting worse, and I got to a point where I was going to be sick right here on my microphone if I did not leave.

What the hell?

Now, the reason I'm saying it's a coincidence is because I am lactose intolerant. Cheese does not usually bother me, but I will take medicine, you know, you just take that like Lactaid or whatever it is, you take the medicine if you're So, my husband made smashburgers today.

Okay.

He put a little bit of cheddar cheese on it, not even a lot. But out of an abundance of caution, I took Lactaid to make sure that the cheese wouldn't bother me, and it always works.

All you're telling me is is that this is not a coincidence. Keep going.

So, I I'm pretty sure it was from the cheese, but the weird thing is is it was barely any cheese, and I took medicine like I'm supposed to, which usually that type of cheese doesn't bother me, and I have never had the medicine not work when I've taken it. So, that's a little unusual, little out of the norm. So, you guys decide.

Oh, boy.

I get upstairs, and my husband's like, "Are you okay?" Cuz he knew we were No, I'm not. No. I'm fine now, but I'm fine now, and we are going to finish our Annabelle story.

Now I'm kind of afraid to listen to the rest, Jesus.

Annabelle has a lot of negative things around her, including there was another death associated with Annabelle. Again, this is another one where you have to respect the doll. Respect the doll, or she will cause problems for you. And supposedly, there's a gentleman that went there that against all warnings was told repeatedly, and he just said how much he did not believe in Annabelle and was really nasty to her, I guess. Unfortunately, that gentleman died in a car crash on his way home from the museum. So, she doesn't fuck around.

I'm always a big fan of fuck around and find out. Everybody knows this. But I also know where that line in the sand is. And when it comes to entities like Annabelle, there's a line in the sand, and you don't even put your big toe near that line, let alone over the line.

I do feel that it is possible that the energy of something could be corrupted. I do also feel that something could be haunted, that things can have entities or energies attached to them.

Totally agree.

I don't think it happens that often. I think it's one of those things that requires an intense amount of energy and just the right circumstances. So, I'm pretty sure that at least a couple of those dolls on eBay are probably not haunted.

I'm thinking no. I'm thinking no.

Maybe all of them.

I'm thinking no.

Maybe not. But there's a lot of shit around Annabelle, there's a lot. Now, after Ed and Lorraine Warren passed away, their things were eventually sold.

And I believe their possessions were auctioned off, if I'm not mistaken.

They were, and we'll get to who owns those in a moment. But I do know that for a little while, Dan Rivera, who is a paranormal investigator, was on a road trip with, I believe, the New England Society for Psychic Research.

That is correct, yep.

And in his possession at that time was Annabelle the Doll and her case, and he was on tour with her. Now, Dan was a believer in Annabelle, and he was hoping to find information. And in July of this year, July of 2025, he was in Gettysburg, Pennsylvania, in a house that was reportedly haunted, and in his possession was Annabelle the Doll.

You're taking a haunted doll to Gettysburg. Like, that's a recipe for disaster right there.

And unfortunately, on July 13th, Dan Rivera passed away from a heart attack in that house. Now, Annabelle was not in the room with him, and it was ascertained that he did pass away from a heart attack, which is a natural causes, and that he did have heart issues. Not supernatural.

I do have a little tidbit that I want to add to this. I know someone personally who is also a member of the New England Paranormal Society. They were not a part of this tour, um, I will say that. They were not a part of the Annabelle tour whatsoever, but did know this person kind of in a met a couple of times, you know, they weren't big friends. But anyway, so I know someone who met this person on occasion. I will say that this person did have a pre-existing heart condition.

Yeah.

That sounded like it was like a a serious thing, one of those things that the older you get, the worse it gets. And I feel like there's been back and forth in the psychic community, you know, was it Annabelle related, wasn't it Annabelle related? I feel like no, and the person that I know that knew him also feels like it was just sometimes your damn number's up.

Right. And from everything I've heard, Mr. Rivera was in his early 50s with a known heart condition. Right, right. And he did pass away from a heart attack. So, not supernatural.

I'm not saying Annabelle's good. Do not mistaken my words. But I don't necessarily think that this particular person's death was Annabelle related.

It's just one more unfortunate coincidence to add to her legend. Recently, comedian Matt Rife and a ghost hunter from TikTok named Elton Castee purchased the Warrens' home, including all of the contents, including Annabelle.

God, go imagine owning that house. Shit.

So, I believe they are going to be fixing that up and and opening that museum. So, keep an eye on their stuff and see where Annabelle ends up next.

I'm almost half tempted to want to go to Connecticut and see it.

Seriously, especially after doing this, I would not be one to disrespect any of Oh, I'd totally go with sweets and candy. I would go with sweets and candy. Cover my ass, man.

Yeah, so there you go. There's our four haunted dolls in case you're thinking of getting someone a creepy doll off of eBay for Yule this year.

You have creeped me out a little bit, but I'm still going to the storage unit and bringing the doll with me when I come to see you.

And I will make sure not to have any dairy products whatsoever the day that you bring that doll over.

I'm taken aback because, like I said, that is not like you. It is not That's not your MO, and and to kind of sit here and watch it happen in real time, I was like, "What is going on?"

I was almost afraid to say anything. I'm like, "She's not going to believe this, but I need to go, like right now."

No, no, I was like, "What is going on?" Shit.

All right, well, so, happy Yule, everybody. Happy winter solstice. I hope you enjoy these 12 days of Yule that go from December 21st to January 1st.

And if you have a scary, creepy Yule-tide story that you love, email it to us because we just want to know. And if you do own a creepy, haunted doll, totally email us because we definitely need to know.

We need to know.

I would love to know. My collection of creepy divination things that may or may not be haunted has been growing, so I love all these stories. Send them to us. Tell us all about them.

Yes. We hope you're enjoying your Yule holiday between the solstice and the calendar New Year. And we hope none of you got eaten by the Yule Cat.

Please, folks, be good, do your chores, don't be a spinster on the 12 days of Yule. We don't want Krampus, we don't want the Yule Cat, we don't want Frau Perchta coming after you. It's all about Santa and let's love one another. Can't we just all love one another?

Keep it sweet, keep it nice, and keep it witchy.
