Laylla: It's witchcraft. 

Laylla: Hi, and welcome to the Solarium, Chelle and Laylla's herb-filled, sun-drenched sanctuary where they put away their pointy hats, put their besoms aside, and lay their cursing fingers on the table. I don't even know what that means. And use their cursing fingers for better uses like rolling magical joints or stirring delicious tea. And today in the Solarium, we have a very large stack of books and oracle cards, all a little on the dark side. I'm Laylla, and welcome to the Solarium.

Chelle: And I'm Chelle, and I have the biggest surprise for you folks ever tonight. For you longtime listeners, you know I'm not a fan of oracle decks. I don't know why. We've talked about it before. I'm sure that you can go back and listen and and find out my my distaste for them. But have I got a shocker for you tonight. One of the things we're going to talk about is an oracle deck that actually caught my fancy. Can it be so?

Laylla: Well, this spooky season is full of surprises. And before we get any further, we would like to thank Red Wheel Weiser for supplying us with the books and the decks that we'll be going over tonight. So thank you very much for those.

Chelle: By the way, shout out to Aaron at Red Wheel. We love you, seriously.

Laylla: Seriously. It is definitely almost Samhain, almost Halloween, and it is freaking cold out. And I don't know if I love it.

Chelle: You don't even know. The Northeast is one chilly place come this time of year. It's like it's 80 one day and then like 59 the next. Gee, Shell, why are you sick? I don't know.

Laylla: Yeah, I've kind of felt bad for you because I know you don't deal well with the cold and the damp, and it's been pretty damn cold and damp there in in Salem. And uh, it's been pretty peopley, right?

Chelle: Oh, sweet Jesus, is it peopley. You know, you and I, believe it or not, folks, Laylla and I are kind of hermity people. And-

Laylla: Us? Never.

Chelle: Half the planet is in Salem, Massachusetts right now. And the other half of the planet will be here in the next however many days before Samhain. But I will say, as much as it makes me not feel good and and has kind of given me an earache like I'm four, we have gotten more rain in 24 hours than we have gotten all summer, and that is much needed. So we thank the Goddess for that, but could it have happened when it was warmer? Jeez.

Laylla: Yeah. Well, you know, everybody likes to go to Salem around Samhain because it is really fun to be with that many other people who are witchy-minded. Even if they're not witches, they at least are there, you know, they're interested in the history, they're interested in seeing witches wandering around.

Chelle: I am obligated to give a little PSA for this right now, folks. Come to Salem, enjoy Salem, see our sights, eat our food. But for the love of all things holy, please remember some of us live here, some of us work here, and some of us need to park here for work. I don't want to go to work downtown, but I need to. And for that to happen, I need to park my car. So remember, have fun here, do your do, be a witch as much as you can here, but remember that there are people who do have to live and work here.

Laylla: All right, I'm going to say this, and when I say it, just please keep in mind that I have the memory of a turtle. But I saw something that said that there's like 800 parking spots in downtown Salem and 10,000 people come every hour or some bullshit.

Chelle: That is an absolute fact, an absolute fact, an absolute fact.

Laylla: Yeah, see, I I probably remember those numbers exactly right. But yeah, it's it's some astronomical difference of the number of parking spots and the number of people that are trying to get there. So they have all sorts of public transportation. Use it.

Chelle: Take the train, and remember, be polite. We live and work there.

Laylla: All right, Chelle. We need to come up with some amazing costumes, and then next year-

Chelle: You know what I tell my sweet love? I'm just dressing up as a witch this year.

Laylla: Hey, I dressed up like that last year.

Chelle: But like, I haven't even seen cloaks yet.

Laylla: What?

Chelle: Not a damn cloak.

Laylla: Okay, you all are slacking. I I need you all to dress up. If you're going to Salem, park somewhere else, and please, for the love of all that is holy, dress up.

Chelle: Wear a cloak.

Laylla: Or a cooler witch hat. I mean, I love those little wool ones as much as anyone else, but there's cooler ones.

Chelle: You own 75.

Laylla: I do. I do. Like I said, I love them as much as everyone else does. I mean, I have like-

Chelle: Where's that big- where's that big black pointy hat?

Laylla: That's right. Wear something extravagant. Go all out.

Chelle: But yeah, no, you can't like- there are even closed in street- like you can't move in this town right now, but not a damn soul has a costume on. I can't even take it. I can't even take it.

Laylla: What a shame. What a shame. Your witchy ancestors would be disappointed.

Chelle: My work outfits are more of a dress up than these people, okay?

Laylla: Oh my goodness. All right. Well, back to the loot. Let's start with The Wanderer's Tarot.

Chelle: I love tarot. I think we should definitely give this a minute. But I cut you off, so tell the people who's this deck by.

Laylla: This is The Wanderer's Tarot, and it is by Casey Zabala, and we did go over their oracle deck not too long ago. The first thing you'll notice is this deck is entirely in black and white, and it almost looks like it has been etched in, you know, like those scratch-off boards. So it's very simplistic, much like Casey's oracle deck. Very simplistic line drawings, but very oddly deep.

Chelle: But it does have one thing that you dislike.

Laylla: Yeah, it's got that silver gilding on the edges. I mean, it looks sharp. It's a- it's a good-sized, black and white, simplistic deck, and the black is very solid and shiny, and the color goes to the edges. And then you've got this silver gilding. So, you know, it's flashy. I just don't think the gilding's very practical.

Chelle: I love it, and you want to know why? And I gener- I'm generally not a gilding lover. First of all, love the cards. I love the black and white. And and when you are looking at-

Laylla: It's very striking.

Chelle: -that edging, it makes it look like they have glitter on them. And you know I love glitter.

Laylla: You do love glitter, and they do look very glittery. Yeah, the cards are very, very striking. The images are etched in white on black, and there's a very simple, straight line white border, very- very thin line. So you've got the black edge-to-edge.

Chelle: But that- that thin border is only on the Minor Arcana. It is not on the Major Arcana.

Laylla: Yeah, the Major Arcana is just picture and black. And they're very pretty. And and as simple as they are, much like Casey Zabala's oracle cards, these come across as very simplistic on first look, but there's a lot of meaning and depth, especially in the Major Arcana.

Chelle: There's this one card that really strikes me. Um, if you could shuffle, too, look at the Ace of Moons, Laylla.

Laylla: Holy shit. No, you did not just say that.

Chelle: Rewind the feed. I did. Ace of Moons. What is that card?

Laylla: I opened my deck. I literally just cut my deck and cut to this card.

Chelle: Are you fucking shitting me?

Laylla: I am not. It's the Ace of Moons. Like, I didn't even count or do anything. I just- you said open your deck to Ace of Moons, and so I did, literally to the Ace of Moons. That's wild. Anyway.

Chelle: Oh. Well, I was going to tell you how striking and poignant I thought it was, but I didn't know that was going to happen.

Laylla: That's pretty wild.

Chelle: I'm actually going to- because you know I like to look up what authors say about cards, even though I have my own meanings. I am going to see what what what she says that- what they say the Ace of Moons is. But isn't that card striking, aside from our spooky thing that just was?

Laylla: The aces are very, very pretty. Now, the- the suit cards, the pip cards, are relatively simplistic, except for the aces. The aces have a lot more character to them. But like, there's the Six of Feathers, and it's six feathers hanging like on a clothesline over a witch hat. How cute is that?

Chelle: I love that.

Laylla: So they do have different suits.

Chelle: You know what's different about this? It comes with like a booklet per se, but you don't get card meanings. It tells you the suit meanings and the things like that, the court cards and numerology, but you're not getting a card-for-card meaning from this deck book.

Laylla: Right. What you get instead is an actual fold-out poster-

Chelle: Yeah.

Laylla: -that has the different suits on it. And it has to know, air, which is- they have like knives or swords. And then to will, which is fire, which is the feathers, which seems so backwards to me. To dare is water, which is like moons. And to be silent, which is earth, which they have as crystals.

Chelle: I need to tell you something I just in the moment realized I don't like about this deck.

Laylla: What's that?

Chelle: Have you been touching it and picking it up and moving it around in your hands? Look at your hands. Look at your hands.

Laylla: Am I glittery?

Chelle: You are. The glitter is already- my hands are covered with glitter from touching the deck.

Laylla: So that's going to get into everything. The one thing I don't like about this deck is um, it can be a little bit hard to see what number of the pip cards you're looking at.

Chelle: Yeah, I noticed that. Yeah.

Laylla: So it can be a little bit hard to tell what card you're looking at. But, you know, that's okay. That's part of the fun of exploring a new tarot deck is checking out what the new meanings are, what the new images are, and and how that resonates with you. But I would not recommend this for a beginner tarot reader.

Chelle: I would not either, and part of it is because of how- the- the numbers. And and some of the- the symbolism I find simple, yet very deep, if that makes sense.

Laylla: I do as well. Yeah, same.

Chelle: It's not fluffy.

Laylla: It is not fluffy. It's- it's very pretty, very simplistic, but I also find it oddly deep, maybe partly because it's so simplistic I can riff off of it and and go a little deeper with it, maybe. I'm not sure. But the images are very interesting, and uh, I like the art. I like the art style.

Chelle: It's a very pretty deck. Probably not one I would use because I am very picky on that, so, you know, definitely nothing to take personal. But I will say, as much as I love glitter, I don't like it rubbing off. The very, you know- I I haven't touched these cards more than a handful of times, and just tonight, I'm like covered in it.

Laylla: I like this box. It's more like a cigar box or some type of jewel box. It just has a little opening that- and it just fits the cards and the pamphlet thing that it comes with. I probably would not use this deck on a regular basis, but it is very striking and very pretty. I would definitely use it sometimes for daily card pulls.

Chelle: It has a purpose. It has a purpose.

Laylla: It does. And I might pull it out, you know, if I have a group of friends together, just because it's interesting and different.

Chelle: I'd call this a special occasion deck.

Laylla: Definitely a special occasion deck. Very pretty. All right, so the next deck we have is actually an oracle deck. And since this is the only oracle deck we have for this episode, I'm guessing this is the one you like.

Chelle: You know, who'd have thunk it? Because the only other oracle deck I've ever really gotten into was the Goddess Oracle, and that's the version from like the late '80s, early '90s. I just- I don't know. Maybe I'm just such a tarot person, I just can't- I can't vibe with the style. I don't know what it is. So I kind of went into this with a bad attitude. You know, I opened my box from Red Wheel Weiser, and I was like, "Oh, an oracle."

Laylla: I like to surprise Chelle with what she's going to get.

Chelle: She doesn't always tell me. I don't always get a say. And, you know, so I'm like, "All right, I know how this is going to go. I'm going to open it, I'll look at it, you know, play with it for a minute, and then tell everybody how I don't like it because it's an oracle deck." Well, well, well, to my surprise, people. If you are going to ever get an oracle deck, I think you should get this. Let me tell you why I feel this way. And this is called The Untamed Spirit Animal Oracle, and this is by Francesca Matteoni and illustrated by Rocco Lombardi. I probably didn't say those names perfect, but we know how I am. But yeah, Untamed Spirit Animal Oracle: Wisdom from the Wild Within. This is different because it's completely an animal deck, and I do look at connecting with animal spirit different than tarot. You- you know what I mean? It's almost like- like how there's ancestor cards. You know, ancestor cards are different than tarot because you're- you're doing something different. But so these, it's almost like if you were trying to connect with an animal spirit, I could see a use for these if you were trying to maybe find your animal. You know what I'm saying?

Laylla: Right.

Chelle: You and I have had a conversation recently. I keep seeing a particular type animal around me and around my homestead that is not necessarily normal for these parts. And I have actually started to look at the card in this deck that relates to that. And, you know, as an overall oracle to like do whatever, like the things you would do with tarot, probably not. No, not for me anyway. But as a animal spirit connection, um, trying to get with that- that animal connection, fuck yeah, man, I love this.

Laylla: Now, these cards are skinnier. They're about the size of regular playing cards, but longer, I would say.

Chelle: They're like- I'd say just a tiny bit fatter than a normal-sized tarot card.

Laylla: They're kind of a cream-colored cardstock. I like the cardstock. It's very nice. It's a good thickness. It feels good.

Chelle: This is a 50-card deck, by the way.

Laylla: On the back, it looks like peacock feathers.

Chelle: Which I love.

Laylla: It's very, very pretty. These are also very simple. I think these are actually were drawn on that scratch art, you know, where you kind of like scratch away the wax to the color underneath. And uh, the artist said that they kind of did that and just let the animal come out the way that it was just going to come out.

Chelle: But the other thing I do like about these cards as well, because you know we're not all familiar with all the attributes of, say, 50 random animals, bugs, uh, mammals, fishies, whatever the case may be. So they have- uh, each card has like two keywords at the bottom. So like, say for instance, I just picked out the owl card, and at the bottom it says vision and silence. So it kind of gives you two like keywords or two prompting words that you can kind of meditate with or or kind of visualize with as you're looking at the card, whatever you're doing with the card. I do like that.

Laylla: I have a love-hate relationship with those, mostly hate, if I'm honest.

Chelle: Why?

Laylla: Why?

Chelle: Why?

Laylla: Because I find when I was using these cards, at first I thought, you know, "Oh great, there's keywords on them." But as always happens anytime I use an oracle deck or a tarot deck that has words on it, that's all I can see. As soon as I put it down and I see the badger and it says determination, mental energy, I can't get beyond that. Like, that's what that card means is determination and mental energy. It doesn't give me, in my opinion, when I do it, I just get so stuck on those keywords that I- I can't let it mean anything else, or I can't let it be more nuanced than that. You know what I'm saying? So I just get distracted, I think.

Chelle: And then the way I look at it is as I kind of- like I see like this owl card, you know, he's kind of- there's a big moon behind him and kind of like a- weedy, leafy field, and maybe some clouds in the background. So yes, it says, you know, vision and silence, but I also kind of see that sacred knowledge and mystery and, you know-

Laylla: Yeah, the pictures are nice. They're very nice pictures, and you can see that there. Honestly, what I might do with these-

Chelle: Magpie them?

Laylla: Cut off the bottom.

Chelle: You know, if you would have said that to me 20, 30 years ago, I would have dropped dead where I stand. But nowadays, I've matured and grown a little bit, and I can see- I can see- I can see- you know, that could work, and you could square off the card. You could do across the black line, kind of make it a smaller card. If that works for you, rock on.

Laylla: Yeah, and these cards, they have the picture in the center. It's very framed by the cream color of the card, and like the title and the keywords are bars of that background cream color. So you get a very big border on the picture.

Chelle: Yeah, Laylla's going to cut off.

Laylla: Yeah, I like edge-to-edge. I like edge-to-edge pictures. I really do. And I don't love the keywords. I do love this deck, though. It feels a lot to me like an expanded, like a 50-card version of the 33-card Druid Animal Oracle.

Chelle: You know, and I actually- I have that, and I- I haven't pulled that out in a good many years. And I do have that, and when I saw this, I- it did kind of remind me of that.

Laylla: The Druid Animal Oracle came out in the '90s, and I just recently got another copy of it. I'm very happy with. But when you and I were kind of coming up as witches, one of the things I think we both learned was reverence for nature and reverence for animals and, you know, our brothers and sister animals and how their essences can work with us. And and so being good to nature, being kind to animals, and feeling that symbiosis was a big part of our magic. You know, you sometimes might even call in aspects of animals for the different quarters. So I think being close to that is something that we learned as we came up as witches, so that might partly be why that resonates with us.

Chelle: That could be. And I think what I like about this is it kind of exposes me to maybe ones that I, for whatever reason, here, there, everywhere, didn't- didn't want to, was too scared to maybe work with or broach back then. For example, if you would have told me 20 years ago to reach out to, you know, some spider spirit, I would have probably died of fright. Whereas, you know, now, you know, I I see the the benefits and the uses of that relationship, um, and how we can benefit them and they can benefit us with a good relationship. It isn't all they're biting me and eating me in my sleep.

Laylla: Yeah, this- this has anacondas, but it also has fireflies, you know, you're going to get a little bit of everything.

Chelle: Right.

Chelle: Um, so for me, I would look at it more not so much oracle-ish, like your true definition of an oracle, but more of like an animal spirit type deck.

Laylla: Yeah, if you're going to kind of look for guidance from that direction. And I- I love the book that comes with it. This is a fat little real book book.

Chelle: It is. Like, I would- you know, unfortunately, though, at my age, this is a get out your readers, friends. It- it's small print, but yeah, I was impressed. And I love this box, by the way. It's the kind of box that like slides out, like the bottom slides out of it. It's- it's- I- I like it.

Laylla: But it also comes in like a regular playing card deck box. Like, it's a box inside of a box.

Chelle: Inside of a box.

Laylla: But this book is great, and and I know Chelle loves it when there's pictures in the book, and this is a big picture of each card next to the meaning, which is really nice.

Chelle: And I love the picture on the cover of the book of the stag. That is a fabulous photo. Like, the photos on this deck and in the book are just fabulous. Like, this was a very well-illustrated book, by the way, or deck and book, by the way.

Laylla: Yeah, it's- it's very pretty. It's- it's very, again, kind of simple because it's just that cream and black kind of scratch-off look.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: But they're such pretty pictures and such well-done animals. I liked it. I liked it a lot.

Chelle: I liked it. I liked it, a lot.

Chelle: I liked it. I liked it and I would I actually, believe it or not folks, I hope you're all sitting down, I will actually use this. You heard it here first.

Laylla: Yeah. Yeah, I was actually I I was surprised. And when I surprise myself, you know it's crazy. Untamed Spirit Animal Oracle: Wisdom from the Wild Within. Nice tagline.

Chelle: I know, right? But now, let's switch gears. We got a bunch of books.

Laylla: We do.

Chelle: I was super happy because the topic of these books is been something that I have been so immersed in for 30 years and I'm so glad the world is too, and that is the Goddess Hecate.

Laylla: Our beloved Hecate. So we got books, four different books, all featuring, you know, one of them I didn't realize was going to feature Hecate and then it kind of did. We got three books. Entering Hekate's Cave and Entering Hekate's Garden, both by the same author, Cyndi Brannen. We got Hekate: Goddess of Witches by Courtney Weber. And then the one that I wasn't 100% sure what it was about, Year of the Dark Goddess: A Journey of Ritual, Renewal and Rebirth by Lara Vesta. So let's start with Entering Hekate's Cave. So the full title is Entering Hekate's Cave: The Journey Through Darkness to Wholeness by Cyndi Brannen. Cyndi Brannen is also the author of Keeping Her Keys, which is another book about Hecate.

Chelle: I I had a hard time with this book, and I'm not going to lie. I know that a lot of folks out there either haven't heard of Hecate or have just recently, you know, I feel like she's kind of the craze and the fad all over the the old Facebook and the TikTok. But this was hard for me because it's not what I know and it's not what I've It's It's not the Hecate I've known for a long time. And it was hard for me. And I I I

Laylla: Okay, you've hit a limit. Before we go any further, let me just say that Cyndi Brannen is one of those authors that I think people really either very much like or very much don't like. And I think it's due to a particular style that she has of writing about Hecate. It comes from a very psychological lens, and it comes from a very personal lens. She has a lot of what's commonly called UPGs, unverified personal gnosis. And that's basically when you have a knowing or a feeling about a deity or about a spell, or maybe you have an ecstatic experience where you literally feel like the deity has spoken to you, but no one else has seen it or heard it and you can't prove it. That's an unverified personal gnosis. So there's a lot of that in there.

Chelle: Which I get, and I understand, and I fully respect. All I'm saying is that my personal unverified gnosis with Hecate is completely different.

Laylla: Yes, and yes, absolutely. And that's part of that Like I said, that's part of the problem with Cyndi Brannen.

Chelle: And, you know, I can I can honestly say the same thing about Entering Hekate's Garden. I see your point. It's just not the Hecate I've known for a very long time, a very long time.

Laylla: That was my point, though. Yeah.

Chelle: Yeah. I just I don't know. What what do you think about Entering Hekate's Garden? I mean

Laylla: So, well, Entering Entering Hekate's Cave is basically a shadow journey. Um, as you go through this book, you will learn about Hecate from Cyndi Brannen's point of view. And there's some good stuff in here. And and there's definitely, you know, there's some really great stuff about healing, about working through darkness, about working through difficulty, and having Hecate with you through that. So I can see where people could would find a lot of value from Entering Hekate's Cave.

Chelle: And I feel like Entering Hekate's Garden is kind of the same type of thing, but from more of a plant witch perspective.

Laylla: Yeah, this almost seems like something that Amy Blackthorn, you know, might have helped write or whatever because it has a lot of properties and correspondences of plants and it has formulas and

Chelle: How about this? This may be a more fair assessment. I would have been less salty about these two books had they been books about the content that they are and you didn't say Hecate in them.

Laylla: Oh, okay. Yeah. So, okay. So I guess entering So basically what you're saying is Entering Hekate's Cave, you would have preferred if they had left Hecate her personal version of Hecate out of it and kept it more as a magical shadow workbook.

Chelle: If they would have started the the, you know, Entering the Cave: A Journey Through Darkness and Wholeness, I'm all for it. Rock on. Or The Magic, Medicine and Mystery of the Plant Spirit Witchcraft, I'd even go out and buy that. But the part I guess it's the it's all the Hecate stuff that kind of just Is there anything in particular about Hecate that you can put your finger on that you didn't like?

Chelle: I'm not sure I am all for Where am I? I am in Entering Hekate's Garden, where she talks about the three worlds. It's like she goes on these seven sacred forces and, you know, mapping

Laylla: Yeah, there's a little bit of woo in there. There's a little bit of New Agey speak.

Chelle: You know, mapping planetary energy. And the Hecate I know would bitch slap her for even putting that in the same sentence as her name. But that's the Hecate I know. That's all I'm saying. You said it right. A lot of woo-woo, a lot of fluffy bunny. Hecate's not fluffy bunny, people.

Laylla: Hecate is not. And Entering Hekate's Cave isn't really either. There is a lot of New Age speak and a lot of New Age ideas, which I think is what kind of turned me off. But there was also I kind of liked Entering Hekate's Cave, you know, as as a shadow thing working with Hecate. You know, it it's not awful. I didn't hate it.

Chelle: Like I said, I would be more on board if it was about shadow work and that journey and she left Hecate out of it. That's all I'm saying.

Laylla: I guess what I'm saying about Entering Hekate's Garden is it was okay. It's all right, but there's better books about Hecate out there and there's better books about herb magic out there. I wouldn't necessarily have purchased this one unless I was a Cyndi Brannen fan and really wanted that slightly Hecate-esque herbal book.

Chelle: In that perspective, yeah.

Laylla: Yeah. So again, not a bad book.

Chelle: Yeah, as a devout follower of Hecate for many decades, I say, meh.

Laylla: So they were all right. I I think if you don't have any other herb books and you really like Cyndi Brannen and are into Hecate, Entering Hekate's Garden is a good place to start to give you some ideas of herbal correspondences, you know, spells that you can do with different herbs. But there's better herb books out there. So it's all right. Two brooms. As far as like a psychological workbook working through shadows, it's not bad. I mean, it's not bad. There's better shadow workbooks out there.

Chelle: Just leave the Hecate stuff out of it. Am I being too critical?

Laylla: Maybe a tiny bit, but I think, you know, that's the Hecate in you. And here we are. But yeah, it it's just a little New Agey for me, I think. It just had a little too much Both of these books had a little too much of a New Age edge for me. But I thought they were okay. Two brooms.

Chelle: Now, recently, when Laylla and I were together and we had a awesome in-person experience with a bunch of our listeners, shout out to Central New York, I had a wonderful conversation with one of our listeners. So, Silvio, if you are out there listening to this, you need to listen to what Laylla and I say about these next two books, okay? So, Silvio, first of all, we love you. And second of all, listen because these two books, my friend. So, Laylla, what are our next two books?

Laylla: Our next two books, actually, we had a hard time determining which of these we absolutely loved more. We have Year of the Dark Goddess: A Journey of Ritual, Renewal and Rebirth by Lara Vesta.

Chelle: We also have Hekate: Goddess of Witches by Courtney Weber.

Laylla: Love these two books. So which would you like to start with, Chelle, since you were so disappointed in the first two?

Chelle: All right. Let's start with Hekate: Goddess of Witches by Courtney Weber.

Laylla: Absolutely. I love this book.

Chelle: This, you know, history, you know, some of the good mythology. Like, I liked this. I liked this.

Laylla: Solid book. Very solid book on the history and rites of Hecate. Gives you so much information. It it explores so much about our beloved Queen of the Witches. And it talks about working with Hecate and ancestors, working with the dead. It talks about the crossroads, why you would want to go to the crossroads. You know, it gives you really good information about Hecate's lore and background.

Chelle: But she also kind of tell She gives you, and I, you know, I can go either way sometimes on this, she goes over some of the best practices and ethics. I, you know, be a good person, be a good human, but remember who you're dealing with. Um, Hecate is not all love and sunshine. And when you're working with her, you are working through some deep, dark, serious shit. And I think this is a good, solid book, but keep your ethical opinions to yourself because not everybody is Wiccan, not everybody believes in the rule of three, and you want to do you, do you. So that was my only that was my only criticism of it was the the part about her her ethics and best practices.

Laylla: So definitely a very solid book. Has some great spells in the back to work with Hecate. But I really very much enjoyed the idea of even though even though, you know, you're talking about the the ethics portion, she does touch on the fact that Hecate is a dark goddess. She does not try to sugarcoat her in any way, shape, or form.

Chelle: No, no, she doesn't. Yeah. No, no, not at all. Which I love. Feel this is a more accurate what you're dealing with when you're working with Hecate. Like, this one right here really struck me. It's Hecate's Rites of the Dead. I was like, yeah. Yes. No fluffy bunny. This is like this is what you're dealing with. This is this is the Hecate I have known and loved. And yeah, I liked this.

Laylla: I was going to touch on that as well because those sections really are what struck out to me as well because Hecate is that intermediary. We've talked about her before. She's the ride-or-die bestie who goes down into the underworld. She's very familiar with that underworld and going in and out of it, taking Persephone and guiding and guarding her as she goes from one space to the other through that liminal period when she goes from the underworld back up and and vice versa. So she is a conduit to the dead. You know, she's that doorway, that gateway, that gatekeeper. And and I loved all the information that Courtney Weber put in here about Hecate and the dead. So really good book.

Chelle: And some of the rituals. Some of the rituals and the spells like this one, a spell to open the symbolic door, a spell to close the door. Bravo.

Laylla: And it was fast. I read through this so fast. I wanted more. I mean, there's so much information, but it's it's a good read and it's a quick read.

Chelle: Her style of writing makes it like not a chore. I mean, what are we talking here? About 200 pages? I mean

Laylla: My only negative thing here would be that it was too short. I wanted more because it was easy to read. And and it seemed like there was a lot of information, but it just went by very quickly.

Chelle: Courtney Weber, if you're out there, we need a part two, woman.

Laylla: We need a part two. So, next book.

Chelle: This one. Silvio, you better be listening to this one.

Laylla: This book, Year of the Dark Goddess: A Journey of Ritual, Renewal and Rebirth, I've said this title like 50 times. Anyway, Lara Vesta wrote this book. This is like an actual year-long plus practice. This is a practice.

Chelle: Let me start off by saying that even after all of my decades of working and closeness with Hecate, this book makes me want to do this Year of the Dark Goddess, no shit.

Laylla: I know. I read it and I'm like, I'm so going to do that. I'm so glad we got this before December because part Okay. So what we're talking about here is this book, it says on the back, "A guided journey of empowerment and healing, Year of the Dark Goddess offers practical tools, including embodied rituals, writing prompts, seasonal self-care practices, and community creation." It is basically a step-by-step, year-long, starting at Yule, journey of shadow work, of working with the dark goddess, working with yourself, working with Hecate.

Chelle: But you know what I actually and I was hoping you would read this line off the back and you didn't. I wrote it down for you. Um, this is one thing that caught me. "Year of the Dark Goddess provides an anchor and a roadmap for navigating the disorientation of life transformations and offers resources for embracing change as initiations that strengthen us and make clear our purpose and power." Bravo to this person.

Laylla: Lara Vesta, this is fantastic.

Chelle: And it's got awesome illustrations in the beginning that I thought were super helpful to the point where I bookmarked them. There's one here, the Dark Goddess Wheel of the Year, which I actually ended up drawing in my, um, Book of Shadows. And then on the very next page, Cycle of Ritual. I don't know. Maybe it's just because I think in a similar fashion as the author, so it was easy for me. Again, this book, I made quick work of this book. But this is the type of book you don't really read, or you read through it once, and then you use it as a workbook. And you know that lately that's been my thing. I love books that are like workbooks. And this is one of those It's not just a book you read. You then go back a second time and make it a workbook. Love it.

Laylla: Yes, it has practices. It has meditations. It has daily self-care practices that you can do. It has so much, and I'm I'm very much looking forward to getting deep into this. It has little stories about deity and folklore throughout that relates to the different things that you're working on. And like Chelle said, this is a book you read through and then it's going to take you a long time to work through, yeah. And I'm looking forward to doing the work.

Chelle: And and the one thing I liked about this, and I was thinking about this as I was reading through it, is you could technically take a lot of that and insert any goddess, really.

Laylla: Yeah, absolutely.

Chelle: Or, you know, any goddess that's of the dealing with the darker side of life. She does mention Persephone and Kore in here and stuff. But, um, you know, say say you kind of jive more with the Morrigan, you could even swap the Morrigan out with I just think this is a damn good book, and it could be used in a lot of different ways.

Laylla: And there's a lot of journaling, and you know how much I love that.

Chelle: I saw that. I saw that.

Laylla: There's a lot of letter writing. She talks about it as letter writing in a lot of these sections.

Chelle: Yeah, I read it as journaling.

Laylla: You'll go through, you journal, you have you have workshops you should do. She talks about anchoring the day with certain little rituals.

Chelle: Take a flower bath. How can you hate someone who's telling you to take a flower bath?

Laylla: Right? Seriously. And for each holiday, there's different things that you can do. She breaks this down quarterly and seasonally. It's just a really good workbook. This one, I am so excited to get into. It just seems to be well-researched. The information is solid. It's got a lot of information and excellent, excellent workbook to connect with your own dark goddess.

Chelle: I'd go so far as saying five brooms.

Laylla: Oh, hell yeah. Easily five brooms up. Five brooms, Lara Vesta.

Chelle: So, Silvio, get the Year of the Dark Goddess. I'm just saying.

Laylla: Yes, definitely. And also, very much love Hekate: Goddess of Witches by Courtney Weber. And we didn't have any books by this author, but Sorita d'Este is a phenomenal author on Hecate.

Chelle: Um, I guess the the thing that I really want to make sure because we did have a couple fluffy books and a couple, you know, darker books, if you get called by Hecate, if she reaches out to you, or if you think you're going to go on a journey to reach out to her, know what you're getting into. I've warned you.

Laylla: Yeah, that's an excellent advice for any dark deity. If you're if a dark deity is calling to you, if you or if you feel very attracted to a dark deity, it usually means that that you're working through something.

Chelle: You're about to get real.

Laylla: Right? That life is about to get very, very interesting.

Chelle: In a hard-working, crying kind of way.

Laylla: That's right. That's right. Be prepared to do the work. Be prepared to put in the time.

Chelle: And be prepared to be in the fetal position crying.

Laylla: But when you come out the other side, you will be stronger. It'll be so great after. It'll be so much better. Yeah, what is that they say? After you break a bone, you it's much stronger where it broke. Is that how Hecate is?

Chelle: You've seen you've seen Hecate put me through the wringer, okay?

Laylla: I have. I have. I have.

Chelle: Look where I'm at. I'm better on And every time it's happened, I've gotten better each time.

Laylla: Better and better each time. So thank you again to Red Wheel Weiser for these books and

Chelle: We love you.

Laylla: We do love you. And all hail Hecate. Year of the Dark Goddess, here we come.

Chelle: See you at the crossroads. Keep it witchy.
