Guest: It's witchcraft.

Laylla: Hi, and welcome to the Solarium, Chelle and Laylla's warm and cozy, herb-filled sanctuary, where the tea is always hot, the herbs are always spicy, and the conversations are magical. I'm Laylla.

Chelle: And I'm Chelle.

Laylla: And on this episode, we'll be talking tea spells, metal magic, and the Morrigan. To make things more interesting, we are joined by Sam Bo Thompson, who's a pagan, a past president of Triad Cups. He's head metalsmith at Ravens Keep Forge, chief tea pusher at Grove Botanicals Tea Shop, and author of the book, Metal Never Lies.

Chelle: Most importantly, you're forgetting, a cool dude.

Laylla: Definitely a cool cat, except maybe when he's around the forge.

Chelle: Well, what do you mean?

Laylla: Welcome, Sam.

Sam: Thank you. Thank you.

Laylla: Thank you for being here. We appreciate you coming on.

Sam: Good to be here.

Laylla: We've been very interested in you ever since we met you at Sacred Space earlier this year.

Sam: It was this year, wasn't it? Yeah. Wow.

Laylla: Now, Sam, I had never heard of metal magic until I met you, and some people say that it's a lost art. What do you say about that?

Sam: Yeah. Most people haven't. Anytime I hear long lost, I tune out. You know, I just kind of shut down. I'm like, "No." I don't know. Um, it's just I think we just have misremembered.

Laylla: Oh, I like that.

Sam: You know, because, you know, I'm I'm kind of Irish pagan, lack of a better word, right? Because I am a priest of the Morrigan, so I kind of focus on that area. You read a lot of the old lore, and it's full of it. You know, it was just commonplace for for everybody. And then we end up, you know, getting, you know, advanced. And the more advanced we get, the dumber we get, I think, sometimes, you know?

Laylla: Blacksmiths at one time were considered to be magicians, witches, but it was considered good magic. To take ore out of the earth, turn it into molten metal, and then craft useful items out of it was seen as very magical at one time, even if we don't necessarily notice it now.

Sam: Well, when the the Industrial Revolution happened, blacksmiths became less needed, right? Because in the days of yore, I always try to find a way to stick that word in because I just like it. Sounds cool. Every town, village, you know, small place, whatever, right, all had a blacksmith. Because there wasn't anything in town that the blacksmith didn't touch. He was very essential, right? From the kitchen...

Chelle: To the battlefield.

Sam: You know, to your your shipwrights, to your farmers, everything through the smithy. You know, I mean, needles, you know, I mean, they just didn't grow them things, right? You know, well, I guess kind of did, but, you know, anyway. And so everything came through there. Um, so I guess he's kind of like the ultimate shapeshifter, right?

Laylla: I like that.

Sam: There are some episodes in some of the lore where he is can be a very nasty individual because it was considered magical to create that stuff, you know?

Laylla: Now, you are kind of a a magical dude. Again, we met you at Sacred Space, and you shocked us a little bit when you first met us. We were walking down the hallways, and we saw you sitting at a table, and you said, "Hey, are you Laylla and Chelle?" And we're like, "Uh, yeah." And you said, "Byron Ballard wants to talk to you." And we're like...

Chelle: Must be a different Laylla.

Laylla: And you introduced yourself, and we talked a little bit about your book, and we talked a little bit about Byron, and it was just a very surreal moment to meet you and to to talk about that, to be recognized, I think, was a little odd.

Sam: Represented, yeah. Yeah, I I've known Byron for about 30 years, right? We go we go way back. You know, we just call each other cousin because we just know each other, you know, like like that.

Laylla: I think I told Chelle that you guys were mountain cousins.

Sam: Yeah, somewhere. I'm not a name dropper, right? It's just that I know that she on our ride up, we rode up together, you know, she's like, "I want to I want to want to talk to these folks." I was like, "Okay. Well, if I see them, I'll pass the word on." I'm I'm good with not being known. I'm I'm cool with that, really. You know, because a lot of the more known you are, the more responsibility you have, you know? And if nobody knows me, I can be an idiot, and nobody cares. You know, let me be a big name pagan and cross the street, you know, wrong, and, you know, everybody's on you.

Chelle: Right.

Laylla: Now, you're in North Carolina, and just a few months ago, you guys had some devastating weather in that area. People are still recovering. How are you, and how are things going for other people in the area?

Sam: Where I am at, as as we're speaking today, which is, you know, mid middle of November, um, I we're okay where I'm at. I'm up close to Virginia, kind of in the middle of the state, Mount Airy. Anybody knows where Andy Griffith's from, it's Mayberry. That's Mount Airy. Um, fun fact, so if you ever get that on, you know, Jeopardy, I want a cut. And and Byron's more from where I grew up, which is in the way western part. Um, my my town, my area, you know, was fine. We got a little wind damage, but but wasn't bad, you know? But they're still seeing a bad one, you know, where where Byron's at. I mean, they still don't have drinkable water yet.

Laylla: And I know that the Mother Grove Temple, Mother Grove Goddess Temple, is still accepting donations. I'll put some links in the description so that if you want to help donate, I know they're doing a lot of good work with local people and donations there.

Sam: Everybody. I mean, I've been amazed with the outpouring of civilian community, right? Pagan community, I'm going to be honest, I'm I'm really kind of miffed because they haven't really helped a whole lot as big as it is. Well, I mean, it's not it's not in the news now. The news cycle's gone. Everybody's mad about something else. We are with um the Tuatha and myself, we're doing a fundraiser on first uh week of December, and 100% of the donations are going directly, 100% is going to um Beloved Asheville, which is a a nonprofit that's got a great network. And we've got a lot of people, you know, I probably misspoke a little bit because there are some folks within the pagan community that that do care. Um, and they've donated either time or resources to help us put on our our fundraiser. And it's nobody's getting a cut, right? Um, Stephanie Woodfield is is doing it. Amy Blackthorn is is giving us a pre-recorded because it's going to be live, and then there's a bunch of folks that's given pre-recorded classes. They're going to be just for the people that donate, you know, to basically to to get to look at. And whether you are there on that day or not, you still get the whole recording, you know, the live day plus everybody else. Pinsax um giving us a class. Um, I just got confirmation from T. Thorn Coyle. She's going to give us a class. I've got some others I'm kind of in the work for. But I mean, there there has been some folks that are, you know, "Hey, yeah, we'll we'll we'll support however we can." You know, if you can just kind of spread the word, you know...

Laylla: Absolutely.

Sam: ...that would be great because I think just people just don't know about it, really, because we're trying to grow it, you know, organically. I'd rather have that than spend people's money advertising stuff that nobody ever sees. Put the money to the people.

Laylla: Exactly. And this sounds like a great value for people. They get to give money to something that's going to help, and they also get all these wonderful classes from some amazing pagans.

Sam: Amazing classes. And some of these classes are classes you can't get anywhere else that they've designed specifically for this. And it's by um by donation, right? So it's uh there's a minimum amount for for donation, which is not very much, and then it's you pick a price after that.

Chelle: Do as you can.

Sam: So, yeah, do what you can, you know? We want, you know, everybody to to be able to, right? I didn't want it to be a point to where nobody, you know, price people out because I'm I'm rural, right? I'm in those areas that aren't uh profitable. So, but I wanted those folks to get on as well as people, you know, that could afford more to afford more. And we've had some really cool donation amounts. I'm very pleasantly surprised. Wild Hunt put us out this week on their notes as well. So it's it's I'm pretty I'm pretty happy with it.

Laylla: That's fantastic. I love that.

Sam: I don't have anything to do with this, but it does, you know, because it everything, you know, everything's connected.

Chelle: We are all community.

Sam: Yeah. Thank you.

Laylla: And that's what getting back on the broomstick is all about, is connecting community and trying to get people connected in ways that they might not otherwise be able to see. So we're going to put that out as much as we can.

Sam: Thank you. I appreciate that.

Laylla: You're very welcome. I think people will really enjoy that. So, in addition to this amazing fundraiser that you're putting out, you also have two websites. One is Ravens Keep Forge for your metalsmithing, and one is a tea website where you're the chief tea pusher. And I'm drinking some tea right now. It's not one of yours, sadly, but we also saw you a little bit at uh Chelle's tea workshop, and we got into some good conversations with you about tea, and you have a tea shop. Is that correct?

Sam: I am the tea pusher, yeah. It's my myself and my beloved own it, right? She is more in charge of the herb. She's an actual trained herbalist.

Chelle: Nice.

Sam: Three-year apprenticeship. Not one of those, "I read a book, now I'm an herbalist." Not that there's anything wrong with that. It's just that she's she's done a lot of work, and this has been her...

Chelle: She's gone through intensive training.

Sam: Yeah. And this is 10 years ago. So, and she's continued to learn um throughout. And and she'll tell you, anybody else that does it, that they they don't they don't know everything. Anyway, so she does a lot of the herbal stuff, um, and I do more of the the teas, you know, because I history of the tea and the the actual Camellia tea. Um, she does all the rooibos and the herb stuff, and I just do stay in my lane.

Laylla: Right. Now, um, do you come up Do you come up with with different magical blends, or do you kind of focus on just flavor blends?

Sam: Yes.

Chelle: Okay.

Laylla: I love that. Fair enough.

Sam: Well, I mean, where where we are, um, is we're rural, right? So it's not like we just want to kind of hang a pentagram on on our door, right? So it's Right. Right. Right. People that are around long enough know they know we know, right? You know, um, I make all our all our incense that's in there. I do do hand-rolled incense that we have in there.

Chelle: But you also have to appeal to the masses.

Sam: Yeah, you know, I mean, and we don't we don't want to be exclusionary, right? I mean, if people want to come in there Sunday after church and get a cup of tea, okay. You know, I mean, it's not about, you know, who you are. We're we're talking, you know, once again, we're building community, and it's not just for our specific group, right? I mean, everybody brings something to the table.

Chelle: Everybody loves tea.

Sam: Yeah, you know, and I think I think we've gotten into this thing to where if if you don't believe like me, we can't have association, and I think that's really negatively impacted, talking about community, it's negatively impacted us because we're stupid, right? And I don't I don't Okay. I do mean that because what happens is you become, you know, you don't grow because everybody thinks like you, you know, and you're not challenging your thought processes or or or new information or old information even, you know? You're just, "If you don't think like me, you know, that we you don't you're wrong."

Laylla: I think that a big part of being a witch is learning and growing and being open to new things, and I think that that's something that we really do well. Personally, I, especially nowadays, will not tolerate intolerance.

Chelle: Yep.

Laylla: But I think that's kind of what you're saying, that the hard part is actually getting people to be open and receptive to hearing something different that might challenge their old beliefs, and creating space for that conversation is important, no matter what you're discussing, whether it's climate change or or your favorite tea blend.

Chelle: Right.

Sam: Yeah, I always kind of, you know, operate with what's the object of the exercise, you know? And it's to get people to to to discover that there's more out there than Liptons, you know? And then once they start that, then I can work on, "Well, let's look at at if you like tea, let's look at ways we can add in some tea meditations." You got to have a gateway drug, right? I mean...

Laylla: Right. Yes.

Chelle: Or adding your intentions.

Sam: Yeah, you got to, you know, and I've got uh there for a while before I had to go into intensive medical care, um, you know, I was doing a Saturday morning tea meditation to where we would come in and just try a different tea, you know, uh classic, non-flavored, just tea, you know, and and experience the tea for what it was, not for whether or not you liked it. That's not, once again, it's not the object of the exercise. It's like, what can you taste? You know, what are you experiencing? How is it making you feel? You know, let's try to...

Chelle: Commune with the herb itself.

Sam: Yeah, immerse yourself in what's going on versus scaling it on a scale of yes and no.

Laylla: Sounds like what I do with whiskey, but I'm definitely going to try that with tea.

Sam: See, I drink whiskey without Well, I used to, without the E. I was a very bad I was a snob. I I was bad. But I don't I don't drink anymore.

Laylla: No, no, no. Tea is definitely good. Now, I have some here, and I will say, you mentioned, um, you got to get people started with what you like. And I know for me, when I started with tea, I think I liked more of, um, I think it's technically Chelle help me out here. It's not a tea because it didn't have any of the tea leaves in it. I liked more of infusions, herbal infusions.

Chelle: Herbal, herbal infusion, yeah.

Laylla: And the tea I'm drinking right now is black tea of some sort with rose hips and cranberries, and I think there's a little bit of orange peel in here, and I'm not sure what else. It's a It's the Crimson Lake blend from Witches Moon, and I absolutely love it.

Sam: That's a very That's very Yuley.

Laylla: You know, it really is. It's very red. It's very delicious. It's my current favorite. I love it.

Chelle: Still drinking his tea.

Laylla: But that's what really was kind of my entry way into teas was more herbal infusions. I really liked those, um, particularly rose hips, cranberry, citrus. I like that a lot.

Sam: Yeah, I think just adding flavor, you know, it's more than anything else. I think, you know, being experimental, find, you know, you're not going to find out what you like till you find out what you don't like.

Laylla: Right.

Sam: You know, and finding out what you don't like is not a bad thing, you know? You just learn what you don't have to do anymore. I've tried that. I don't need to try that anymore.

Laylla: We don't have to like everything. It kind of goes along with that, don't be afraid to get dirty, and don't be afraid to fail because it's all part of the process.

Sam: Yeah.

Laylla: I love that.

Sam: It's part of the human experience.

Chelle: I don't like green tea. There, I put it out there.

Sam: Well, you just haven't found the right one. That's all. That's what I tell people. That's what I tell people. You know, "I don't like tea." You just haven't because we have about 70 different teas plus our herbs um that we have. And I just tell you just haven't found haven't found yours yet, you know? Take some time. We'll find yours.

Chelle: I also focus on black tea because I do not like coffee, and folks, please do not email me about this, but I do not like coffee at all. Um, and tea has always been my source of caffeine, so I always tend to lean towards the black tea or a black tea base because I'm looking for the zing and the zoom.

Sam: Well, and and the good thing about tea is that you get all the health benefits with it. You know, you get your polyphenols, and you've got your um antioxidants with it. I mean, in Europe, in in the UK, not Europe, in the UK, they recommend five cups of tea a day.

Chelle: Right. I love that.

Sam: Me too. Bring it over here too.

Laylla: And tea, Chelle and I have discovered, is one of those things that's very easy to incorporate into your magical practice because you can add all sorts of different herbs in into it uh to change your intention, or you can just sit with the flavor of it and just experience it like you were doing your Saturday morning meditations. Just kind of experience the flavor, the heat, or the coldness, you know, and just be there in that moment.

Chelle: The ritual of just drinking it, making it, like I've always gone back to those Japanese tea ceremonies, the act of putting it all together and making it and then consuming it.

Sam: For hours.

Chelle: Right. Right.

Sam: For hours. I mean, it's a thing.

Laylla: Wouldn't that be a lovely Saturday afternoon? I wish I had that time.

Chelle: I know.

Sam: You just haven't made the time. You have the time. You just haven't made the time.

Laylla: You're exactly right. You are right. Now, something I have made time for, Mr. Sam, most and best. I don't know if this is your fault or what.

Chelle: It is. It is.

Sam: Blame it on me. I'm here.

Laylla: I'm going to blame it on you. I have started melting metal and playing with metal magic.

Sam: Oh.

Laylla: And I made this worry stone. I made this on the last full moon.

Sam: That's uh aluminum.

Laylla: Yeah. Yeah, it's made out of aluminum.

Sam: What's it look like?

Laylla: Uh, but working on molding it, um, it's just a primitive little forge in my backyard, uh, using charcoal.

Sam: That's a great way to do it. I teach it literally I have a class where I'll teach it, and we literally dig a hole in the ground.

Laylla: I love that.

Sam: There, with wood. I mean, we've been doing this since before the Bronze Age because they actually found in up around Michigan, um, first peoples were actually uh doing forge work with copper before the Bronze Age. Wow. On their native, you know? But I mean, we've been doing this for a long And we haven't changed. Right? I mean, it's one technology that doesn't change. You get it hot, and you hit it hard. That's, you know, we've changed how we're doing it, right? You know, but for the most That's it. There's magic in that, and it's amazing how long people have been doing this. Um, you know, we talk about the elements, air, fire, water, and earth, and all of that is in a forge and molten metal. Now, you've been a pagan since the '90s, and you've been a primitive metal worker since like 2012-ish?

Sam: Something like that, yeah.

Laylla: So, uh, paganism sounds like it came first.

Sam: Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah.

Laylla: Did you always incorporate paganism in with your forging, or is that new?

Sam: No, I I knew I knew there was always something with it, you know, because I think I think any craft, anything you do with your hands, you can incorporate I'm trying to make sure I say this correctly so I'm going to piss off the least amount of people. I don't have I don't have separate parts of me. Okay? I don't have a I'm a pagan here, and I'm, you know, mundane over here, or, you know, I don't I don't have that, you know? I'm just I'm just me. You know, and I'm always trying to look at ways I can be more me, right? Uh, the ways I can always incorporate and have whatever it is that I'm doing as part of my practice. And I think the more that I can incorporate that, the more I stay in touch, the more I stay plugged in, the easier my life is. You know, so I I think once I started doing that, it didn't take long to figure out, "Oh, wow. Look, this is all elemental." You know, and then there's the spirit of the smith, which is me. So it wasn't long for me to to to do that. How the book came about was because nobody else had anything on it. Because I looked. I looked really hard. You know, somebody surely somebody's doing this, right? And I end up having to write the book because of it, you know? It wasn't a Damn the people. Well, it it wasn't them. The people I don't really give a shit about, be honest with you. I don't mean that ugly, but, you know, my, you know, my goddess would, you know, she she she determined otherwise. So.

Chelle: Now, that was a question I wanted to ask you because I feel like you got a bunch of things on different spectrums. How do you incorporate being a priest of the Morrigan, being a metalsmith, and being a tea magician, ultimately? I know your wife calls you a tea peddler, but I'm calling you a tea magician.

Sam: Okay. The the metalwork and the Morrigan's easy. That's, you know, because I remember everybody would say, "Well, why don't you" that know the Irish mythology, "you know, why why aren't you with Brigid, right?"

Chelle: She's the smith, right?

Sam: You know, why not why not Goibniu? Because he was one of the four craftsmen, right, of the Tuatha. To me, it was really easy because I asked the same question, like, "Okay. Yeah. Why?" You know? And it's the the etymology of her parents' name is basically forged forged in fire, forged by fire, or and a death by iron or iron death. So that's blacksmithing. I'm like, "Okay."

Laylla: I mean, they absolutely do go together because blacksmithing is intimately tied to tools of war, and the Morrigan, one of her many aspects, is as the goddess of war.

Sam: But she's so much more than that. You know, I mean, that's just so, you know, that's what everybody kind of jumps on. Yeah, everybody because that's, you know, what everybody talks about. But that's just, you know, we're we're a war people. So obviously that's what we see, right? I mean, when have we not been in war somewhere in our in our lifetime? You know, I mean, I've been in it, right? Because I'm a I'm a combat vet. But, you know,

Laylla: Now, uh, isn't she also a goddess of shape-shifting?

Sam: They call her the shape-shifting goddess.

Chelle: Your shape-shifting metal.

Sam: So, it's not a goddess of, she just is that.

Laylla: Right.

Sam: Yeah, so that that all kind of works together. I mean, she's, you know, the great queen. You know, so, I mean, we can I can be here all day talking about it because I have a a five-month class on this. You know, so, I mean, we could we could be here all day talking about it. Um, because I'm very passionate about her. Um, because I just think I think she's known and unknown, you know, misrepresented a lot. And there's so much more to her, you know, than war. You know, because she usually at the edge. She's more of an instigator than anything else.

Laylla: Interesting.

Sam: You know, she's an insider. That's what she does. She incites battles. You know, it's like, okay, let's just rip that fucking scab off and let's get to let's get to it. You know.

Laylla: Get to the point. Yeah.

Chelle: Now, do you ever find a way to incorporate metal magic and tea magic together?

Sam: Um, I've made um I've made my wife spoons, tea spoons, for her to stir with.

Chelle: Ooh.

Sam: Uh, there there's there's some uh mixed metal that that I have done. We have a copper bowl that does about a about a tablespoon that then I put attach a an iron piece to.

Chelle: Ooh.

Sam: So, it's mixed metal. It's really kind of cool. And then I do small ones where I've just hammered the spoon out of the steel itself.

Laylla: I have to say, I was looking through your website, uh, Ravens Keep Forge, and I was very intrigued when I got to your Full Moon Forged Binding Knot. And I thought that was pretty badass.

Sam: Yeah, they they are.

Laylla: That's now that's some pretty heavy magic right there. Can you explain that to us?

Sam: Me and Superman, tying knots in metal. That's it, you know. Right. Um, yeah, it is very much binding. I I work with the Ogham, so I can add Ogham to them. And I've had people doing them for using a lot of different reasons for them. And then I heat it up to where I literally tie a knot in the steel.

Laylla: All right, so it looks like 10-12 inches of a 3/16 inch steel bar, like a rope. Think of like a like a 10-12 inch rope, but made out of steel. He then heats it up, ties it into a knot, and then flattens the end. Now, that's a pretty rough, powerful binding spell.

Sam: That's that one's pretty that's pretty permanent. You know, I've had people I've done them for they felt unsafe where they were. Mhm. So, I did some work with them when we tied the knot, and they hung it in the tree, you know, as a boundary marker. Nice. Which, you know, Gandalf, get you some of this, right?

Chelle: Now, I have a question as well about a product. I was pretty bummed about this product. You do, on occasion, specialized things that you work magically certain times, and you offer those out to folks on your website, um, which Laylla will post links to the website. You made raven feathers out of copper.

Sam: Out of copper. Was it the copper ones you Is that the ones or the steel ones? I I just did copper ones, a community forging with the copper ones.

Chelle: The ones you did in October.

Sam: That was a special forging.

Chelle: My first question is, do you have any of those left? Because I was poor as you don't even know what when you were doing the order, and I was so angry with myself. Do you?

Sam: No.

Chelle: Damn it.

Sam: Uh, I do once a month I do what I call a community forging.

Chelle: That's what I was going to ask you. That was my next question. Do you do the Do you do these types of special magical forgings regularly? Okay. Every month.

Sam: Every month. Um, either on the full moon or dark moon, whatever I'm kind of getting the vibe of, you know, needs needs to be done. The feathers were special because I hadn't made those out of copper in about four years. Um, because I I reserve those because if you do it all the time, it's common. It wouldn't be as seasonal, right? But I I did those as a fundraiser to send to Western North Carolina. Right. You know, uh, donated money to both Mortellus and the Mother Grove because they they needed it, right? Right. Um, and I did that as a fundraiser. So, I brought that one kind of out of hibernation because that's a that's a very special one. The steel ones I have fairly regularly in stock, you know, if you want to get a steel one. Or you can commission one, and we just have to kind of talk about it, what you want, why you want it.

Chelle: So, you do do commission orders as well?

Sam: Yeah, that's about 80% of my business is commission work. Okay. Between the tea shop and forging, those those are my vocations. Once a month, so I'll do these once a month. It's a pre-order, right? So, here's what I'm doing. If it speaks to you, you know, here's how much it's cost. You go ahead and pre-pay it, and then I do the forging. It sits on her altar overnight, and then I ship it out the next day.

Chelle: So, are they they usually have some sort of intention, like like you said, whatever your what vibe you're feeling that month? Pretty much.

Sam: Yeah, you can go back and look at my blog, and I'll have write-ups on each one, why I'm doing what it is I'm doing. Okay. And then there's a link from the from the blog right to the to the piece, you know, because I mean, not all things are going to speak to everybody. I get that. Right, right. You know, and I'm not, you know, don't have a dog in a fight, right? Because it's just what I'm doing. If it speaks to you, here we go. Sometimes I have extras, and I'll have, you know, listed in there, you know, I think I've still got some of the talls from a couple of months back, which was a copper piece for healing because we were kind of needing that at at the time. And I did make some extra because of it. Usually, it's, you know, I make a couple extra just in for our postal services. They lose stuff from time to time, and I want to make sure that if you bought something, you're going to get something, right? Because you can't I can't make those again, right? And everybody's is made out of the same piece of metal. Ooh. So, if the two of you got something during that time, all three of us would be bound by that piece of metal. Connected. So, everybody's kind of getting that intention, but everybody's kind of pulling the rope in the same direction, if that makes sense. Ah, I love that. You know, so we're all all working on that specific intention. So, I think it adds to it.

Chelle: I love that.

Laylla: Do you have any spellwork or rituals that you do before you go into these special pieces or while you're working them?

Sam: I do. Um, pretty much anything I do down at the forge is always ritual. Mhm. It's all sacred forging. Once again, I don't have a a me and a not me. If you've seen pictures, you follow me on Instagram or whatever, you'll see pictures of from the forge to my shrine for The Morrigan. That's usually part of my end of my start, if that makes sense, right? Mhm. It's, you know, honoring her, you know, because she I get her last, and that's, you know, because I look at her, and she looks at me. There's there's a a line of sight there. Anybody that gets anything from me, it'll be sacred forge. You know, and I do have a ritual that I've kind of designed, and it's on the the four treasures of the Tuatha, Tuatha Dé Danann. So, yeah, it's it's juicy. I I love it. Working magic, I mean, all the time as a job, you get to work magic. How sucky is that?

Laylla: If you're lucky enough, right? If you're lucky enough to be able to just make everything magic.

Sam: Yeah, well, my forge is a little different because I I forge with charcoal. I don't use coal. Mhm. Because my granddaddy had a black lung, and, you know, fuck them. Right. I'm not using coal for jack. So, I I make my own charcoal. So, I go get the wood,

Chelle: Is it because Is it because wood doesn't burn as hot?

Sam: Charcoal doesn't burn probably doesn't burn as hot as coal, but it's a a natural reoccurring resource, right? Because I get wood that's already fallen, cut it up, split it, dry it, put it in the kiln, make it charcoal, and then that is what goes into my forge. So, I I touch everything that goes on, and 90 probably 95% of the metal that I use is scrap. So, it's all repurposed. So, it's, you know, it already has a life, which is cool because it's got all that energy already built into it.

Laylla: Now, I've found this probably a bad idea, but I also take herb mixtures and will add them into my metal as I'm melting it. Obviously, it doesn't stay because the metal's much too hot, but I kind of stir intention and spellwork like that. Have you ever add anything into the metal?

Sam: I I don't. Um, I usually do it afterwards, as I'll infuse make herbal infusions and use that as what I call tribute. Because to me, I'm an animist, and once again, redeeming the Lord. It's all in the book. If you read the book, it's kind of I give examples um to where metal's alive, you know, and it's so, you know, I I give tribute to it, you know, um that way. Because the other thing about have working with iron is it rusts, so you have to. Mhm. You know, if you don't take care of it, it'll not take care of you. That's why people used to swear on swords because it was what held your your binding. It was your your guarantee, right? It bore witness. Because if you broke your oath, your sword would break. That was was the belief at the time.

Laylla: Now, I'm also an animist, and I do feel that metal, stone, certain crystals, metal in particular, holds energy very, very well. Uh, it can conduct energy well. It can hold on to that energy. So, I'm I'm not surprised to hear you talk about like, people swearing on their sword because it would remember, in my mind, that sword, that metal would remember that oath.

Chelle: That's the same with any sort of talisman, you know, a a ring, a necklace, a bracelet, what what have you. Anything out of metal, honestly, not just swords.

Sam: Once again, I think it all goes back to your intention. Mhm. You know, you'll, you know, and with it, you'll the more you do it and the more you work with it, the more you'll you'll notice it, you know. I have wards around my property made out of steel, you know, and I'm I'm good. Not really worried about.

Chelle: I can't wait till I'm able to go to Laylla's house next time and have her show me this because I'm actually kind of jealous, and I want to I want to melt metal and make it into things.

Sam: Well, now, I have not worked with aluminum. I only work with four. You know, I work with copper, uh bronze, brass, and and iron, steel, are the four that I work with.

Laylla: Aluminum's the only one I've worked with so far, but I'm very much looking forward to working with pewter and copper. I think I want to try my hand at making some alumabrass.

Sam: Well, brass is a brass is a form of of copper. It's an alloy of copper. Um, it's got uh zinc and copper is what you get for brass, which is cool because we have both of those elements in us. That's kind of the whole premise behind the book is that you you're already connected to the metal because it's already in you. You already have iron. Find find me somebody that don't have any iron in their body.

Chelle: I don't have as much as the doctor says I should, but it's Well, you have it. I have I have traces, apparently.

Sam: You know, and you got to have copper because that's what enables your body to absorb the iron, right? Um, you get cold, first thing that people do is they give you zinc, right? They boost your zinc levels up, right? So, copper and and zinc, right, it makes brass. And bronze is tin, tin and copper make bronze. And you have a a trace amounts of of tin. It's you get most of this stuff from your vegetables. It's not a large amount. I mean, that's why the Romans wanted Britain was for the tin. Humans don't take other people's territory unless there's something there they want.

Chelle: I guess I guess I didn't realize, honestly, and this is like, I learned something new today. I didn't realize that we actually had all of those metals within us. Mhm.

Sam: Well, don't go around licking copper and thinking you're going to, you know, don't be a tin licker, you know. Right, right. But but it's it's just the same as as that, you know, we are made up of earth, air, fire, and water as well. I I guess I didn't realize we were made up of all these metals.

Sam: Exactly. And and that was the the big realization that I started working with, you know, and that's why the book is titled Metal Never Lies because it has that guarantee. It just it just is. You know, it's one thing. Because there's nothing out there on what the metals are. You've got these blips, you know, and I think one person copied from everybody else, you know, because no matter where you look, it's all the same. And it's a lot more than that that that I have found out through through my work. You know, and I I could totally be wrong, but the way that I look at it and and have experienced it, you know, is a lot different. I work with them according to to their personalities. You know, it's like everything else. There's a big difference between, you know, working with passionflower and and and working with tulsi.

Chelle: I'm a big believer on a lot of people find their own interpretations for themselves, and what might mean one thing to me might mean something different to you, and a third thing to Laylla. I think people need to just take the time to work with things and, like you said, find the personality of that, whether it's metal or or an herb, work with that personality, and then you will be called knowing what it means, what it means to you. Make sense?

Sam: Yeah, totally. And I think the key key thing here is is work. Yeah. It's not something people want to do now. You know, they want to get a download, or they want to get, you know, give me the give me the down and dirty, quick. And it doesn't work that way.

Chelle: In the spirit of what you just said, talk to me a little bit about what are your suggestions for people who would want to maybe start dabbling in metal magic aside from getting your book and reading it? Then what? What can they physically start doing?

Sam: There's a lot. Um, if you don't That's the cool thing about metal magic is you don't have to be a blacksmith to do it. I mean, it's you already have it in you, right? You just need to figure out how to get that connection. Yo, the book does help because it kind of walks you through it's a workbook. It's not just a me giving you everything.

Chelle: Those are my favorite types of books, workbooks.

Sam: It is a workbook, you know, so you can kind of come to your own conclusions on things. You know, and I can kind of give you this is how I see it, but, you know, you do you, right? Mhm. But, I mean, you can do simple things like use a nail as a candle scribe. You know, but don't just use the nail, become aware of the nail. Right. You know, learn learn the nail first. You know, have it be an ally in your magical craft versus just a tool.

Chelle: I love that.

Sam: Right? I think I think so much times, you know, because I'm guilty of this. I'm, you know, I'm I'm by far not perfect. But, you know, I would gather gadgets, right, tools because it was cool. You know, and then I would put them in the my my my magical box and put them away until, you know, eight times a year I pulled them out to do my, you know, high muckety-muck stuff. Um, I don't do that now. You know, all my my my my altar's a working altar. That's a good way to say that.

Laylla: Yes, it's a it's a living altar.

Sam: Yeah, very much so. But having relationships with those tools and and see, we don't know how to do relationships anymore. You know, we got caught up in the pandemic, and we don't know how to get along with folks. It's just easier just to block them and get done with that, and I'm going to talk to somebody that speaks my language instead of working through, you know, when you're stuck on the bus with somebody, you're going to have to figure it out. Right, yeah. You know, um so I think, you know, learning how to have a relationship with your tools, whether it be metal or wood or whatever that is, if you want it to be an ally, you want your practice to be all-encompassing, you've got to have relationship with it. And the only way you're going to do that is to spend time. You know, um I cannot spend five minutes a month with my wife and expect me to have a deep relationship.

Laylla: Right, right. That's a good way to put it.

Sam: Relationship is relationships, you know. I mean, if you're wanting that type of relationship, get a goldfish.

Chelle: That's a great thing. Your your point applies to so many things because I've said similar things about herbs. You know, you've you've got to kind of commune with the herbs if you want them to start working in your favor, you know. And so, this absolutely makes total sense to me that that and it sounds like you don't have to forge metal to perform metal magic, and that's a good thing because folks like me, I can't forge metal in my location. But I'm intrigued by metal magic.

Sam: Yeah, and and there's I mean, there's a lot of different ways that you can do it. You know, I think your your imagination is going to be your limit. You know, being able if you have a task, sit with it. You know, what what do you want? What what do you need? You know, how can I do this? Um, and just kind of work through. I mean, that's how I do most of my stuff is like, all right, how am I going to do that? You know. Some things come down the down the line when I get to that point where I need it, right? Because I'm I'm the world's worst chess player, right? I want to know have everything I'm a Capricorn. All my shit's got to line up in both directions all the time. I got to know everything possibly that could go wrong so I already got the answers.

Chelle: Fire, yep.

Sam: That's me. And I am so not like that anymore, you know, because it I spend a lot of a lot of needless energy on things that that never never come to come to pass.

Laylla: Now, metal is not only in our bodies, but it's on our altars, it's in our home, it's in our buildings, it's in our cars, it's in the gadgets that we use. You mentioned four metals in particular that I think are relatively common, and they're the ones that you work with a lot. You said steel, copper,

Sam: Bronze and brass.

Laylla: Bronze and brass. Can you tell us anything about the properties, just a little bit about magical properties of those?

Sam: Sure, yeah. We'll start with copper. It's been really kind of a an eye-opening experience for me with it is because the mundane uses are actually the same as the magical uses. It really doesn't change a whole lot, right? Um, so if you start with copper, I always kind of looked at copper as kind of the blood of the earth because it's the softest of of those three metals, right? Um, very much way to to send energy, right? We have it in our walls. It carries electricity.

Laylla: It's conductive, right, for electricity.

Sam: Carries electricity, right? So, I mean, it's, you know, it's very much having energy. It helps energy go from one place to another. Perfect. Right? And it can be shined up new. It's really bright. Um, but so I and I think its natural property is healing. You know, it's an antimicrobial, right? So, that's why hospitals use it, you know, in certain areas because nothing hangs on it. I have copper pipes, water pipes, in in my house because it's a that's what they used back then. Mhm. Okay, so that's that's that. Um, if we go into brass, I I love brass. Brass is like I I get the feeling it's kind of like my my my favorite uncle. You know, very utilitarian. I like that, yeah. Right? You know, it doesn't it doesn't rust, you know, it doesn't, you know, it's it's you have to shine In the army, we shine the shit out of it, right? It was bright. Um, but it if you look at at the nautical your your bells are made out of brass, right? A lot of the propellers are made out of brass because they don't rust, you know, and they're very they're very tough. Um, and a lot of manufacturing areas to where you you can't have a anything that causes a spark, you know, you'll use brass hammers, right, and those type of tools.

Chelle: So, that that sounds like the properties could be more kind of resistance or or protective.

Sam: Or morph. You know, one of the things that I noticed as I was doing my studies as I walked through the house, and you'd be surprised at the amount of brass I had in my house that I I forgot. It hides. It just kind of blends into his surroundings. You know, you probably got um brass candle holders all over your house and you don't even know it. Or you forgotten them, you know, they've just kind of just blended in, you know, they they don't stick out anymore, right? But they're there doing the work. Yeah, you know, and they're just kind of hanging out.

Chelle: Even even door hinges, um you still can find door hinges that are actually, you know, are brass. Yeah.

Sam: Brass, yeah. Um, you know, bronze is, you know, uh very reflective, right? Because the Romans used it. They would shine it up as a that was where they got a lot of their mirrors and stuff from, you know. So, the the high-end people could afford that. That's why they took over Britain for the tin to make the brass bronze, right? Um, bronze statues, right? So, they hold their shape well. Um, you know, there's a there's a a sense of a value, right? Because it's a bronze metal. Mhm. Right? Looks like the little gold. Yeah, um and it's bright as brass. It's probably heard that term because it shines up to where, you know, Almost gold-looking. To me, it's like Lugh. I just it's just that kind of everything.

Laylla: You mean like, um, the Celtic god Lugh, the king of the Tuatha Dé Danann?

Sam: Gold box flying, you know, and I'm Lugh. Guy standing up on the top of the, you know, I have no idea what Lugh looks like, but I just kind of picture, you know, standing up on top of a mountain.

Laylla: Bright and bold and majestic and...

Sam: It's very majestic. Um, whereas copper's kind of, you get that gentle wisdom. It's kind of like a grandparent.

Laylla: Mhm.

Sam: You know, kind of kind of wisdom to it, you know. And then you get into into iron. I use iron and steel interchangeably, um, because steel is 98% iron. And so it's only 2% of other stuff that makes it steel. Part of it being carbon, and they get that they got that back in the day just from the forging process because you've got carbon in a forge. And it just automatically makes it steel. And there's like 3,500 different grades of steel. No, at me, I don't know all of them. I'm not a metallurgist. I'm a blacksmith.

Laylla: Yes.

Sam: But steel to me is very rigid, right? So it's focused. It has that laser that laser-like focus. It's strong. We build buildings around steel. Steel is the bones of your building.

Chelle: The foundation of things.

Sam: Yeah, well, I mean, you look at the 1950s, you got these guys walking around these skyscrapers and they're just they're just steel beams, right? So they hold up these magnificent buildings. Um, you know, and it's it'll hold an edge. It's a great tool, but you have to take care of it. You know, there's a there's a reciprocal...

Laylla: Reciprocity?

Sam: Thank you.

Laylla: You're welcome.

Sam: That word. It has that portion.

Laylla: I help Chelle with them all the time. I got you.

Sam: So, I mean, it's just there's a lot with steel that I like because it'll take care of you if you take care of it. And there's there's a lot of relationship with that. Was that too too much? Not enough?

Laylla: That was perfect. It's a lot like herbs, oddly enough. It's a lot like everything. The the form and function of it is also how it acts magically. If you know what it does in the mundane world, you can have a darn good idea of what it does in the magical world and what it'll do for your practice. I love that.

Sam: And if you'll notice, a lot of the steel that's on my site, I've I've tempered. That's what gives it the color. Right? And tempering, um, when you temper steel, now this is a tool steel for most of it that I use. I do make athames that that are tool steel, so it holds an edge, right? But when you temper it, it it locks it in to a certain aspect, right? I'm sure you've heard don't lose your temper.

Laylla: Yes.

Sam: Growing up. Right? And what happens is if if it gets too hot, right? Because you're hot-headed, it gets too hot, it loses the temper and will no longer hold an edge. So I do that with most of my steel because, one, I think it's pretty. Two, it has that magical essence of it's been, you know, this is its purpose. It's locked in, if that makes sense.

Laylla: It does. Now, I have one last question. You work with the Morrigan, and she is part of the Tuatha Dé Danann. And from what I understand, the fae aren't real fond of iron or forged steel.

Sam: Okay.

Laylla: How does that how do you how does that work?

Sam: I don't really have a a lot of relationship with the fae.

Laylla: It's because of all the iron.

Sam: Well, see, I don't around here, we call them the cousins.

Laylla: The land spirits more, right?

Sam: Yeah. I I do have a a lot of, I mean, iron it's all over the place, right? Um, it's in the soil where we live. I got two iron forges from back in the Revolutionary times where they would get iron from the soil to make cannonballs and stuff, pig iron, is what they call it. Anyway, so we have a lot of it naturally. You know, you can go down to our creek and you can see the rust line along the creek where the, you know, it just kind of rusts. So, I don't know. You know, you'd have to ask somebody, you know, Daimler, you know, how all that works. I don't, you know, I don't have that experience. I have a lot of activity around my forges. I don't know if it's the fae or not because I'm just I got other things that that are on top of my mind. You know, but I know they don't seem to mind it.

Laylla: I think here in America, in particular on the East Coast here through the Appalachian mountain ranges, you know, we do have a lot of metal. We do have a lot of things like that in the soil. I think the land spirits and the fae here in America probably don't mind too much.

Chelle: They're used to it.

Laylla: Yeah.

Sam: Well, you know, I I we we have an agreement that, you know, I take care of everything and, you know, they don't they don't mess with me much. You know, I I leave them milk, you know, so they're...

Chelle: That reciprocal relationship.

Sam: You know what? I mean, once again, you got, you know, you you have your stuff. I'm not going to mess with it, and you don't mess with mine.

Chelle: Before we let you go, Sam, I want you to remind us of where folks can go to donate for folks in Western North Carolina, and I want you to remind us of your website and socials.

Sam: Okay. The donate, it's on my website, but you got to know where it is.

Chelle: Okay.

Laylla: I'll put a direct link. No worries.

Sam: Socials is just it's Ravens Keep Forge. Instagram, Facebook, BlueSky, Threads, YouTube.

Laylla: Perfect. Now, people, go to this website because not only will you find beautiful, handcrafted, magically crafted items, there is hand-rolled incense. There is forge filings that you can use in your spells. There's black salt. There is all sorts of magical things that you can find here. It's just a treasure trove. I absolutely love.

Sam: Probably not black salt. I give you the ingredients for it because everybody makes it different.

Laylla: Perfect.

Sam: I've got mine, but the the charcoal that you get from me, um, now, cuz I've I've kind of upgraded, I've upgraded my charcoal. So what I use now for, um, cuz I do have the anvil dust, right, which is the the what I call the shavings, right? So pieces of metal that fall off from the forging. And you mix that with charcoal as part of your and whatever that makes your black salt. The charcoal that I use now is what's left over from the forge fires.

Laylla: Ooh, nice.

Sam: It's the charcoal that didn't get consumed. Mhm. So it's been through a forging and still there. So that's kind of stout stuff if you ask me. So now I use that as the charcoal um that goes out for black salt.

Laylla: Your DIY black salt. Love it.

Sam: I've got a uh recipe uh YouTube thingy where I tell you how I make mine. You know, it's not like it's a big I don't have any secrets. I'm I'm not into that. Yeah, you know,

Laylla: No gatekeeping here, Sam.

Sam: I just, you know, I don't I don't care.

Chelle: Sam, I also I also want you to tell us your beloved's uh website for tea, cuz we all need tea, damn it.

Sam: It's thegroveteas.com with an s, g r o v e t e a s.com.

Laylla: Got teas, got mugs, got tea towels, got cups. Again, another fabulous site.

Sam: It is some of the best tea that that I've found. It's all loose leaf. We don't have anything that's pre-bagged. Um, and we're real careful about what we bring in, you know, and make sure that they they do we don't have any fake flavors or fake colors or any of that stuff. You can see it, which is what I like, you know, um, oh, I know what I'm making.

Laylla: People, go buy the tea. Go buy the tea.

Sam: Don't spill the tea, buy the tea.

Laylla: Well, on that note, thank you so much, Sam, for joining us on Back on the Broomstick. We really appreciate your time.

Sam: Am I seeing y'all next year?

Laylla: I was going to say I can't wait to see you in person again.

Sam: I'll be doing another class this year too. So, yeah.

Laylla: Yay! We'll be doing a ritual. We'll be doing a meditative ritual. So, hopefully, I'll be there. Awesome. Well, we'll be at your class. Hopefully, I can get a signature on your book.

Sam: Yeah, you bring it. I'll bring some. I'll have some. So, if if yeah, we'll we'll figure

Laylla: Oh, I'm getting one from your website. Everyone, you can get his book at his website. It's right there.

Sam: It's on Amazon too.

Laylla: On Amazon too. Makes an excellent Yule gift. So, again, thank you so much, Sam. We will see you at Sacred Space.

Sam: Yes, ma'am. Thank y'all. Appreciate it.

Chelle: Thank you, Sam.

Sam: Bye.

Laylla: Thank you so much to Sam Bo Thompson for joining us on this Solarium episode of Back on the Broomstick. We hope you guys enjoyed this little diversion into some metal magic. Pretty cool. I've never heard of that before. Definitely going to be doing more of it.

Chelle: I've learned a lot tonight, and I'm I'm I might be delving into non-forging metal magic here.

Laylla: I, you know, I think it's something we've kind of been doing without really thinking. So I'm going to be more intentional about it.

Chelle: Exactly. Exactly. But, Sam, thank you. We love you, and we will definitely have you back soon.

Laylla: And we will see you at Sacred Space in March. So if you have any questions, if you want to get in touch with us, please check us out on our website, our social media, our email, backonthebroomstick@gmail.com. Leave us a like, some stars, a review. Really appreciate it, and it helps the show out. Be wise, be wicked.

Chelle: Keep it witchy.
