Laylla: It's witchcraft.

Laylla: Hi, and welcome to the Solarium, Chelle and Laylla's herb-filled, sun-drenched sanctuary, where they kick off their pointy-toed shoes, put up their besoms, and sit back, relax with some books, or maybe some authors. I'm Laylla.

Chelle: And I'm Chelle.

Laylla: In this episode, we're talking all things divination with Paulina Stevens and Jezmina Von Thiele, authors of the book Secrets of Romani Fortune-Telling: Divining with Tarot, Palmistry, Tea Leaves, and More. Jezmina is a fortune-teller, a writer, an editor, a teacher, and a performer on the East Coast, and Paulina owns Romani Holistic Healing, where she offers fortune-telling, herbal remedies, life coaching, and meditation services. She hails from the West Coast.

Chelle: That sounds familiar. Right?

Laylla: They're also co-hosts of the podcast Romanistan. We'd like to welcome to back on the broomstick, Paulina and Jezmina. Welcome.

Chelle: Welcome.

Jezmina: Thank you so much for having us. We're so happy to be here.

Laylla: We are very excited to have you guys here because we were fortunate enough to get an advance copy of your book, and we fell in love. That's all we have to say. We just absolutely love it.

Chelle: And I want to start off by saying, this isn't necessarily, like I understand the concept, you know, the secrets of the Romani fortune-telling, but this book is like universal for anybody who's looking for tips and tricks and advice on divination in any form. Like this, this is all of a sudden one of my top divination books because this is so fabulous. I love this. But we'll get into the whys.

Jezmina: Oh, thank you.

Paulina: Yeah, I'm loving that right now. Thank you so much.

Laylla: Oh, you guys are very welcome. I did find out that the podcast is kind of how you guys met. Is that right?

Jezmina: Oh, yeah. We're on year three. It's crazy.

Chelle: Congratulations.

Laylla: Tell us a little bit about how your guys's relationship has evolved and a little bit about what you talk about on your podcast.

Jezmina: Yeah, well, I love when Paulina tells the story of how we met because it really started with her.

Paulina: So, I was hoping to get something started, either a podcast or a YouTube channel or something. I wanted to just kind of spread the information because at the time I had left my community, and there were other girls that were kind of reaching out that were like, "Hey, like, you know, I went through the same thing," and blah, blah, blah. So, I was like, "I don't know, like, what to do." And I came across a video, I think it was a YouTube video, where Jez was talking about just Romani rights and just advocating for us as a people. And I felt like it was kind of this different point of view. So, I had originally emailed them, and we just, yeah. Do you want to take it from there?

Jezmina: Yeah, yeah. And Paulina, you're, I feel like you're leaving out some of the, um, really crucial part of your story.

Laylla: I would love to hear a little bit of the backstory about that, Paulina. Tell our listeners a little bit about your history because it's fascinating what brought you here.

Paulina: Yeah, so I grew up in Romani community, and we're kind of our specific subgroup of Roma people that came here. My family's a little bit split, like so we have a couple of different vitsas, which are like subgroups that have kind of joined together. So, we had come to America around the late 1800s, kind of, um, also then during World War II as well. And we kept a lot of our traditions like pretty close-knit. So, I wasn't allowed to go to school, or when I did, it was just not for long, or it wasn't really important, or because the law required us to, or just something like that. And the reason why, I mean, the book also explains like the details and the deep kind of rooted things that, you know, created the, the distrust between us and like the government, basically. So, yeah, our community stayed pretty close-knit. And I was raised to be a fortune-teller, so I wasn't allowed to really have another job at all. Like, I had to be a fortune-teller, you know, selling crystals, candles, this, this, like stores and stuff like that. It's just something you can do wherever you go. You can do it, you could, you know, read for people on the street, you can read for people on a fair, you can just kind of do it wherever you are. And so, um, yeah, that's what we were raised to do. And then when I say left the community, it's just kind of my specific community. You obviously can't stop being, you know, your ethnicity or your race. Like, you can't really stop that part. But yeah, so it's kind of I've left my specific community, and we are trying to, I guess, create a little more inclusive space for people inside and outside the community. And I feel like Jez really also brought a different, a much-needed perspective to the podcast and just to our work in general.

Laylla: And that's really what you were doing when you were reaching out to Jezmina. You reached out to them more to help create this whole community and to help create a new community from the one that you had left.

Paulina: Definitely. And yeah, one of the best phone calls I've ever made or emails I've ever sent, however it went down.

Laylla: Jez, what's your story?

Jezmina: So, yeah, when Paulina reached out to me, um, she had left her arranged marriage just maybe like a year or two before. She was asked to do a podcast, um, with the LA Times, a series called Foretold that I highly recommend everyone listen to, just about that whole experience. And we also talk about it in the book. And Paulina wanted to make sure that she was doing something that was coming from her, you know, even though she participated so much in Foretold, it was still, you know, another podcast telling her story. And it made her realize that she wanted to have her own platform and, um, but she didn't want to do it by herself. And initially, when Paulina reached out to me, I was in such a strange time in my life. Um, so I grew up mixed and assimilated. Basically, for any listeners who might not know, Roma refers to the Indian diasporic ethnic group, also known as Gypsies, which, you know, has been used as a slur a lot in the US. It's also a misnomer, um, because it comes from the idea that Roma come from Egypt rather than India. And it's one of those words that a lot of Romani people will reclaim and use really proudly, some don't. I grew up using it in my family, but pretty much across the board, Roma prefer that people who are not Romani don't appropriate the word Gypsy. And so, as a, that's my little aside. So, I grew up mixed and assimilated, meaning that, um, I'm not from an entirely Romani family. My dad is not Roma, only really my maternal grandmother is Romani. But, um, we were so, so close. She was one of the most important people in my life, my favorite person, really, I just adored her. And she passed down, um, her culture and her practices to me as a small child. And she had fled Germany after the Holocaust. And, um, it was still unlivable there for Roma and, um, any marginalized people, Jewish people, but also just, you know, average German citizens, like, war-torn countries. It's really hard to live in.

Paulina: Yeah.

Jezmina: So, my grandmother passed down her relationship with the Romani culture, but my relationship to the Romani culture is fragmented. I grew up outside of community versus Paulina growing up inside community. And so, we had this idea that we would really like to create a podcast that told Romani stories and uplifted Romani people from all different walks of life, especially Roma who maybe feel like they don't fit in for whatever reason. So, LGBTQIA+ people, like disabled people, maybe folks who decided not to get married or left their marriages, or, you know, pursued education, or maybe are doing a traditional trade and want to talk about that.

Chelle: Basically, you're trying to, you're trying to reach out to everybody who's had your experience, Paulina's experience, and everything in between.

Jezmina: Yeah. Paulina called us like the, the outcasts of the outcasts, and I was like, "Oh, that's perfect." So, we have our whole little rebel group.

Laylla: Where everybody can come and just be part and be who they are and still be part of community. I love that.

Jezmina: Totally.

Chelle: Now, how did, how did the podcast transition to the book? Because you've had the podcast, you guys are doing really well, and now you've got this fabulous book that is ready to hit the world.

Jezmina: Oh, thank you. Yeah, I mean, so Weiser had reached out to me a few years ago, and I was very, very ill at the time. And so, I was like, uh, because I had long COVID, I still do, but I'm making improvements. And so, yeah, it was, it's been weird. But, um, you know, I was like, "Let me, please be patient." Let me think about it. And they had originally asked for a subject that I wasn't sure I wanted to talk about because so much of it is closed practice. So, I pitched to them, "You know, let's talk about Romani divination because that's something that is mainstream, and we would really like to add cultural context back to that." But I wanted to write it with Paulina because she's my creative partner. I love our two perspectives. And as the podcast has evolved, we've become such good friends, even though we didn't know each other at all. And so, I just couldn't imagine doing it without her.

Laylla: And I love how you wove, I understand you didn't want to get into closed practices, but I love how you wove so much history and culture and, and your personal histories into this book while keeping it chalk-full of practical things that people can do. Different divination styles, you explained them in such an accessible, beautiful way while keeping true to your culture, I guess, while keeping all of that there.

Jezmina: Yeah, and it's, it's so nice to have a book that can lend the cultural context of, you know, tarot is definitely created by the Italians, however, like Roma created it as a divination tool, and this is part of our survival. And, um, it's nice because these things have become universal, but we're trying to add the cultural context back to it, um, so people don't do things maybe accidentally, like, you know, dressing up like the traditional fortune-teller or something is actually dressing up as a caricature of a Romani person. And so, we can all like be so excited about all the ways that we connect and we have similarities while also being really respectful of histories of persecution, of cultural sacredness, of survival practices, and like honor and call that out and name it.

Laylla: And that's such a really good point that you make very subtly throughout the whole book, that there is so much history and culture here and so much of your own personal history, but that's also what makes it so very easy to connect to, so very easy to find similarities. Like, for example, with our grandmothers and with learning palm reading. You mentioned your beloved grandmother that you learned from, Jez, and, and I kept seeing things from my childhood reflected in your childhoods. Like, one of the things you talked about, I was talking to Chelle about this beforehand, is you have a chapter in here on palmistry, where you talk about the different types of palmistry, and you both mentioned being taught different meanings for the hands. My grandmother was more of a spiritualist, she didn't do any of these things. She was not a fortune-teller by any stretch. But she enjoyed them, and she taught me with palmistry that your dominant hand, that's your future, right? That's your future. And your non-dominant hand, she said, was your fate at birth. And she said your non-dominant hand would never change, but your dominant hand would change over your life as your, you know, chance and choice change things. Now, you guys each had learned different things about that. Can you tell me a little bit about learning from your grandmother?

Jezmina: Yeah, my grandmother had such a funny way of putting this. And so, um, the way she put it was, well, your dominant hand, um, and if you're ambidextrous, you know, whatever hand you tend to write with, is your life. Like, that's your life now, and it changes. And your non-dominant hand is your past life. And my grandmother did believe in past lives and reincarnation. In her opinion, the past life was over, it ended, you're dead, so like stop thinking about it, like get over it. So, she didn't want me to read the non-dominant hand because she was like, "Well, that's just ridiculous." But I, I kind of love that like never look back. But, yeah, and Paulina had a different perspective on it.

Chelle: Yeah, Paulina, what, what, what was your experience with, with learning some of these traditions from family?

Paulina: What's interesting is that I feel like I, like so many people have mentioned different things. I think like originally it was like, okay, your non-dominant hand and then your dominant hand, or it's like whatever you're feeling, or you read both of them if you need more context. So, that was kind, I don't even know if I mentioned all of that in the book, but that's definitely what it was like.

Laylla: And I love seeing the different perspectives, you know, and how it's so similar and yet also so different. And, and I think that was another thing in the book that was really good is, is how you talk about reading tarot cards. And oh gosh, I'm not sure which one of you it was. Somebody said that there were so many different decks of cards in your home that the deck that you ended up reading with not only was like in not so great shape, but had cards from all sorts of different decks in it.

Paulina: That was me, and it's funny too because I think Jez mentioned that they really like that story too.

Laylla: I love that. Like, do you, do you ever do that on purpose? Like, I purposely have some decks that I have mixed different cards into. Is that anything you ever do on purpose now?

Paulina: Um, I've never, yeah, I've never done that on purpose. Um, I don't know, it's, it happens even now. It happens so often, like so many random cards, like I'll see random cards on the floor, and I'm like, "How on the world did this even get here? How did this happen?" Like, everything is just mixed up everywhere because it's so intertwined with my life. So, never on purpose, always by mistake, but is it really by the universe's?

Chelle: Exactly. Exactly.

Laylla: Didn't you have an experience once, Paulina, where you pulled out like four Tower cards?

Paulina: Yes, and I still think about it, and I still get nervous sometimes. Like, remember, like I have PTSD.

Laylla: Oh my goodness. Yeah, that would scare me. Like, one is bad enough. Four of them? No, I'd hide under my bed. I'd be like stuffing crystals into my bra and everywhere and hiding.

Jezmina: So much change. So much change ahead.

Laylla: And change is scary, man.

Chelle: Towards the latter half of the book, there was a bunch of chapters that really grabbed me, and I like you guys's perspective and, and what you had to say about these topics. And the first one, I just want to get a couple of opinions from you both on, the ethics of fortune-telling. I can't remember whose grandma gave the list of the moral and ethical code, so to say, but I loved it.

Jezmina: Oh, that was my grandma, yeah.

Chelle: God, that's so good.

Laylla: That is so good.

Chelle: And I think, again, another piece that is valid information for anybody practicing divination, no matter what your belief system is. And tell us a little bit about your rules. I'm calling them rules, but they're not rules per se, but tell us about the moral code of conduct when it comes to fortune-telling and divination.

Jezmina: Yeah, I feel like it can be boiled down to a few basic tenets, but, you know, expand a little more with my grandma's rules. But, you know, both Paulina and I feel really strongly like you shouldn't manipulate whoever you're reading for. You shouldn't try to scare them. Um, my grandma had a blanket rule, don't tell anyone they're going to die, because I think that sometimes people want to be dramatic or, you know, I don't know what it is, or feel like they can prophesy these things. But it's really harmful. You can do a lot of harm reading for people without that, um, consciousness about people's feelings and fears. But she also likewise encouraged me to really trust my intuition. I really can't doubt what I feel or hear. Sometimes the things that you might see while you're reading for people might not make any sense, and you might not say it because you're afraid to feel silly. But one of my favorite experiences was, um, kind of recently. I was reading tea leaves for someone, and they asked about their spiritual path, and they were like, "Just what, what do my guides want me to know about my spiritual path?" And I saw this little opossum curled up with all these little baby opossums in the tea leaves. And I was like, and I heard like, "She's caring for opossums." And I was like, "That sounds crazy."

Laylla: You got to say that.

Jezmina: And so, I was like, "Are you caring for a family of opossums?" And she's like, "Yes." And so, she had been taking care of these opossums as a kind of devotional to the land that she was living on because she found these opossums that, you know, didn't have a good enough shelter, and they were hanging around. She's like, "Let me, like, get them a little area." And I was like, "Oh, yeah, that's a, that's a really big part of your spiritual path is, is caring for animals." And, you know, I've had other moments like that too. But, you know, she was really big about just saying what you believe. It's okay, don't get your ego involved in it. Don't try to manipulate people. Don't lie, um, and just basically remember that you're of service, and it's not about you. You're just trying to help.

Chelle: And you know, my, my take on that has always been, this isn't a set-in-stone future or, you know, a rock-solid prediction. But anything from this moment on can, can be changed and, and reshaped. And that's why I never like giving, you don't tell people, "Yeah, you know, you're going to die next week. You're going to get hit by a bus." No.

Jezmina: No.

Chelle: No. And, and it, it, I, I loved your listing, and I thought that was great. And, and your next lead-in, um, which I also, again, how to be convincing. I can't remember which one of you it was that was just kind of started it at like 13, thrown in rooms of people to read. How do you be convincing at 13? How? Is this a confidence thing? Is this a, you got to believe in yourself for people to believe you? Is that really the basis of that?

Paulina: By the time we hit 13, it's like we already know, you know, we've been trained already our whole lives like until we can talk. And so, I feel like by 13, to me, yeah, like you're totally confident. You've been in the rooms, and you've seen it your whole life. Now, you're just the one, you know, sitting in front of the person. And what's crazy too is I feel like we are taught how to uphold ourselves. So, even when I was 13, like people thought I was older. They would like, "Well, you carry yourself, you know, like so old," or whatever it is. But also, even when you're clearly young, you know, 9, 10 years old, and you're at a fair like reading for someone, whatever it is, it's such an interesting industry. Like, a spiritual message can totally come from an 8-year-old or a 13-year-old. Like, it's the spirit world. It's not really like, you know, I'm not going to let an 8-year-old, you know, do my root canal, but, um, I wouldn't mind the tarot reading or something.

Laylla: Sure. Now, didn't you also mention that, that you, you practiced a lot? They would have you maybe with an uncle or someone read palms or give them little mini readings. And, and I think that, that's such a good point that practice really does make perfect, and reading for someone other than yourself can really help to grow your ability.

Chelle: You can read all the books out there, but, but you have to do the work, and you have to do the practice, and you have to come up with what different things mean to you in a reading and what different symbols may articulate to you specifically.

Paulina: Yeah. And I'll tell you guys too, something that I didn't mention in the book was sometimes the like uncles or aunts would give a, an example, like a different insight. So, it would be like, "Pretend I'm, you know, a 19-year-old girl," or "Pretend I'm an 80-year-old man," or "Pretend I'm this, pretend I'm that." And that was also really helpful for me to feel comfortable being in a safe space of like, oh, well, I can pretend everybody's kind of messing around. And they're also giving you tips where it's like, oh, like, you're not going to be, you know, that soft of a voice like when you're talking with someone maybe, you know, older or, you know, far away or they can't hear you, or maybe someone's really emotional, like you have to have, you know, then you do talk with a softer tone. Like there is just like weird little things that I feel like I didn't think about how much helped me throughout the process, but um they totally did.

Chelle: Now, Paulina, your story intrigues me to no end. I actually am from and grew up in middle upstate New York, so I I get that farm life um that I'm not currently living. And to hear that you were put in a horse stall, like I know that fear. Like I've experienced that. I'm just thinking to myself, you used animals as a way to kind of hone your skill, um well, sounded like maybe horses specifically to hone your skill. I never thought of that, but how amazing. So, give our listeners just a little tidbit about about your your younger days of practicing divination with horses.

Jezmina: Yeah, so, you know, because for Romani people, fortune-telling is one of our many survival trades. So, because of the persecution through centuries since Roma left India, um our work has been really limited, and so we take jobs like this really, really seriously, which is why, you know, we start learning when we're like four years old and practicing on family. And so, my family um wasn't as big as Paulina's, and um my dad's side of the family, um yeah, for whatever reason, we we just never practiced on them. And so, when I had run read for everyone in my family, and I had read for their friends, and I felt comfortable with everyone, uh in New Hampshire in the '90s and early 2000s, um it wasn't really popular. It was a little too weird to have a fortune-teller. And so, you know, I would do that sometimes, but my grandmother and my mother were like, "You're not getting enough practice. Like, we need you to, you know, because it's it's a real thing. It's a real job. You're 13 already." You got to get out there. And so, um my mother and my auntie Zina um were working at a barn, and they would teach riding and, you know, get show horses ready for things, and sometimes show horses themselves. And uh there were so many problem horses that maybe they were, you know, great horses, but they were afraid of something, or they were lame for some reason no one could figure out, or they were really grouchy, or like would like to bite people in the face. They just had all of these issues. And um their owners had sort of exhausted all the options, and my mom was like, "Let's let's give this a try. Um if you're really intuitive, you should be able to read animals." And um so, the my first test was being put in the stall when I was probably like 12 um with a horse that was notoriously biting and kicking everyone. And my mom was like a very tough person, so she was like, "Figure it out." And um so, I had to do my, you know, my meditation outside of the stall, and I was trying to connect telepathically with the horse to just, you know, let him know that I was there to help, and I wasn't going to, you know, try to make him do anything. I just want to know like why he was so grouchy. Like, what's going on? Maybe I can help you. And um because I was 12, I really wasn't second-guessing myself at all. Like Paulina was saying, like you just have to be confident. They teach you this confidence. You just believe in yourself. And so, I went in there, and I put my hands on the horse, and I asked if that was okay, and immediately I had this flood of information from this horse that was biting everyone in the face. Like, no one could deal with this horse.

Chelle: If I'm correct, it's Bitey McKickerston.

Jezmina: That was the nickname I gave him because I was so scared of Bitey McKickerston. And I was like, "I'm going to get kicked to death." But, you know, he really actually just wanted to complain to me. And so, he was like, "I do not like the music. It's too loud." And he kind of like, I looked up, and there was a little radio in his stall. He's like, "I don't like the style of music." And I kind of like heard classical music in my head, and I was like, "Oh, he likes classical better." Someone must have played that once. And he's like, "Also, they sing in the morning. I don't like the horse next to me." He just like had this long list.

Laylla: Complaining.

Chelle: Complaining.

Jezmina: Yeah. And so, when I left the stall, and I told his owner everything, I told the barn hands everything, they're like, "I mean, we'll try it." And then, he was fine. No biting, no kicking. You know, perfect little gentleman going in and out of his stall. And so, then I had all this business at the barn, and I got a lot of practice.

Laylla: I love that. As an animal lover, I love that. Now, Paulina, you you learned a lot as a child in your family from your family as well. But, you had this time where where that wasn't the right life for you, and you had to, you know, kind of leave that. What was it like reclaiming that? That has to be very difficult, you know, to leave it behind and then to also kind of come back to it.

Laylla: Re-embrace it.

Paulina: Yeah, can you tell us a little bit about that journey?

Paulina: Yeah. Um I will say that I think growing up, I have to backtrack a little bit because ethics weren't they were taught, but it was more like, "You don't take food out of other people's mouths," and kind of like stuff like that. It wasn't as like basically the line definitely blurred. And so, I would say that that was one reason, but also, I mean, I was in a place where it's all I was allowed to do. And so, I felt like, "This, you know, I'm going to get a corporate job, and I'm going to like, you know, live the American life, and like I want a a 9-to-5. I'm going to take the weekends off," because I was working late, you know. I was working all the way 9:00 p.m., 10:00 p.m., 11:00 p.m. Like, the fortune-telling world is an entertainment industry, for sure. And so, yeah, I did the 9-to-5, and I was just like, "I don't know. Like, I need, you know, I need spirituality." And I learned so much about my people, learned so much about my culture. There was just so much more that I came back with. Like, when I did come back to it, I'd also went to college, and I studied biotech, and I was like, "I don't know why, but like so deep into the scientific realm, it intercrosses with the spiritual realm."

Laylla: It does.

Paulina: So now, yeah, like totally. Like, once you reach one side of the spectrum, like you're on the other side of the spectrum at that point. Nothing exists, and everything exists.

Laylla: So, you really went the science route. You went completely opposite your upbringing, and then that brought just like science and magic, it brought you right back.

Paulina: Totally, it brought me right back, and I do find um my experience, I think, has totally helped me throughout the whole process. So, I feel more confident. Like, I can also write emails and be a fortune-teller or something.

Laylla: One of the other things I loved throughout this book was you you guys talked a lot about your family. You talked about your ancestors, and you talked about doing a little ancestor work, and also dreams, um which to me, a lot of times it seems to me that when I hear that people who don't necessarily believe that their ancestors come back to them, they will say, "My loved one passed away, and they came to me in a dream." You know, you hear that so often.

Chelle: Very common.

Laylla: Yeah. Can you tell us a little bit about dream work and a little bit about ancestors coming to dreams?

Jezmina: Yeah, I mean, I I think Romani people in general, um you know, there's there's always diversity in our group, but a a lot of Roma believe that dreams are really significant. It's something you should pay attention to, that spirits, uh spirit guides, ancestors can all speak to you, your own intuition, you know, deity, spirit. And so, we do pay close attention to our dreams and talk about the symbols that come up. And in both Paulina's and my family, you know, animals tend to indicate some sort of premonition or indication for the future or for your fortune. And for some Romani people, you can have visits with your ancestors that are kind of like neutral, loving, maybe they're giving a message. Other times, um we believe that they are like coming to bring us to the other side. And so, it can depend if you feel like that's a a signal um that it's time to go uh or if it's just an ancestor visiting. It's interesting because I um one of my so my auntie Zina, who um I just absolutely adored, and most of my Romani family passed away over the last couple of years, like one after the other very quickly.

Chelle: Oh, that's hard.

Jezmina: And um yeah, it was really hard. And my auntie was always the kind of person who, if I was having a bad time at school, she would just kind of come pick me up and be like, "We're going to the beach." And I'd be like, "Okay, bye." So, she was definitely like, "Oh, you don't like it? Let's bail." And I was having a really, really bad day one day, and I said to her out loud, I was like, "Oh, auntie, I can't take it anymore." And that night, I had this dream that I was going to the darkest like region of the world, and I was getting all these like messages from my friends to not eat the food and to wear a coat because I would die if I ate the food, all this stuff. And I ended up at like this nightclub because my auntie loved to dance. And um and she was ushering me in, and she was like, "Come in, eat with me, dance with me." And I was like, "Oh, I can't eat or I'll die." And she's like, "Eat with me." And I was like, "Oh, no. She she heard me. She heard me say I'm tired of this. She's coming to get me." And my dog actually jumped on my chest and barked in my face and was like, "Wake up." And I was like, "Oh," and I had to have a little chat. I was like, "Auntie, I am not ready. I'm being I am just dramatic."

Chelle: Not yet, auntie. Thank you.

Jezmina: "Love you, but not right now." Yeah. So, yeah, it it varies, you know. I think sometimes people can read really heavy into dreams, and even even if it is a spirit coming to get you, you can often negotiate or talk.

Laylla: Do you have anything that you recommend to if you wanted to reach out to someone in your dreams or if you wanted to reach out to an ancestor, Paulina, do you have a a preferred way that you like to do that, like how you like to approach your ancestors?

Paulina: I think what's so crazy is I find the similarity similarities because it always comes down to food, some way, shape, or form. It always comes down to food. So, like you put out their most favorite things, you light them a cigarette, you just kind of like their coffee is really important. Coffee, for some reason, is super important. Water, and yeah, their favorite things, and you just that kind of like calls their spirit, and then you can technically do a little ceremony if you wanted to with some frankincense and bread, where you light a candle and you light the um frankincense, and then you just kind of take it around the table and say some things, and it like calls your ancestors or your spirits to you. So, yeah.

Laylla: I love that. And and I love how you brought up the similarities because, you know, we were just talking about, you know, the the Celtic celebration of Samhain is coming up, and they very often do like a silent supper, and and food is a big part of that to call their beloved dead and to to have that. And I just love seeing that across different cultures, seeing all those different similarities because our ancestors, our spirits are the same the world over, you know, and they all like the same kinds of things. So, I think that's very cool. Um now, you you also mentioned, you know, leaving out maybe a cigarette for your beloved dead. And I noticed one of the things you guys have recipes and good spells in your book. You also have tea recipes, which Chelle and I love, and smokable recipes as well.

Chelle: Smokable.

Laylla: Which we are both very much into. So, I I do like mixing a tea blend to do work or even mixing a smokable blend to do spell work. Can you guys tell us your experiences with herbs?

Jezmina: I think that, you know, for both Paulina and I, we grew up just learning about herbs and spices in medicinal ways, and the magic of it was always just very practical. Like, you know, the the things that were considered lucky are also really healthy for you, like, you know, hot pepper and garlic and, you know, lemon and all of these things. And so, we came up with some recipes that were just with herbs that we're familiar with. Paulina's family is super into lavender, and so a lot of her recipes are really lavender-heavy. Mine is really into like the chamomile and the lemon, and my grandma was always interested in kind of like So, I run pretty anxious, actually. Paulina does, too. We're both very anxious.

Laylla: So, lavender and chamomile is perfect.

Jezmina: A lot of our recipes are about like bringing the energy nice and calm and smoothed out. And so, yeah, we just shared some of our favorite recipes, things that we've tinkered with, and we have some really simple ones, we have some more complex ones, and um both Paulina and I really like to integrate um, you know, smoking and and smoke um into our our personal ritual. So, we thought that would be fun to just introduce some of our favorites.

Laylla: I was pleasantly surprised to see that. I did not expect to see any recipes like that here, but I was I was very happy to see those because I I think herbs and incorporating them in teas and smokables is is a wonderful way to bring them into your practice. So, I was very happy to see that in your book.

Jezmina: Yeah. And I think that, you know, we have such an animistic perspective, it's it's important to remember that we can talk to the plants and ask for their help.

Laylla: It looks like there is a a very strong animistic perspective in the Romani beliefs. Can you tell us a little bit more about that?

Jezmina: Yeah, we we really feel that um everything has a spirit, you know. And again, we can't really speak for all Roma, you know, but Paulina and I grew up this way, and I think it's sort of the old way of doing things. But, you know, people might have converted to different religions, have different perspectives.

Laylla: Absolutely.

Jezmina: Um but, yeah, we were I mean, both really raised with this idea of being respectful of all living things, of plants, and even inanimate objects. Like, you know, a lot of Roma will apologize to bread if they drop it on the floor because bread is so important to us. And so, it was just a way to move through the world with respect, but also to remember how connected we are to all life. And our relationship to the land, especially being historically nomadic, is uh much more of a relationship rather than ownership. And so, I think that really permeates everything that we do.

Chelle: And again, that's something that definitely translates to multiple cultures, multiple societies, and and I think that is one of the things that I learned the most from this book is that, you know, everybody's kind of really just doing the same thing. They're just tweaking it a little bit different depending on region, culture, upbringing, and and things of that nature. We're all doing the same thing here. Now, do you have a a favorite form of divination, Paulina? Is there something that you prefer to do?

Paulina: Definitely. Again, like, I think I might have said this before, but like I hate saying this because it feels like it's so overplayed like and and over-marketed or something in society. But, I think tarot is just really easy for me.

Chelle: I agree 100%.

Paulina: Yeah, like I could do a lot of other things, but it's just like it's just it's fun, you know. I like looking at the pictures. I like all the different cards and the pretty colors and all the different artwork, and it's just it's kind of a favorite. I grew up with it, and I feel like it holds like there's deep roots and deep history in there. And I think that's what I connect to.

Chelle: Paulina, I have a side question. I have a side question. You you talked about having a lot of decks. Now, one thing I need to share is I am a tarot deck collector, and I am...

Laylla: Addict. She's a tarot deck addict.

Chelle: Shh, shh, shush yourself. And I have about 200 decks right now. Are you a fanatic, and what is your favorite deck? Because I am I don't even use them all, honestly. I use two or three, but it's the pictures and and it's I just love tarot. So, are you a fanatic, A, and B, what is your absolute favorite deck to use?

Paulina: Gosh, I feel like I wish I feel like my real answer is going to disappoint you a little bit. But, I would say that so, basically, I would say that I love the Rider-Waite deck just because it's what I grew up with, and so I know like, you know, once you learn the Rider-Waite, you can learn everything else. So, I always find myself going back to Rider-Waite. But, I really feel like I could pick up any deck and just kind of use it like right in that moment. But, I also, I mean, I don't even know all the correlations to like a regular playing deck. But, for some reason, I went to a party, and I gave great readings all night with a regular playing card of deck, and I made some side cash. Like, I think you just kind of you just kind of learn it. But, I love that you're a collector. My mom totally collected, and I'm sure she'd probably have a better answer for you. But, for me, I feel like it's just any deck and the traditional probably Rider-Waite just because it's always there.

Chelle: I did the opposite. I refused, absolutely refused to touch a Rider-Waite deck for 30 years until like what, Laylla, 2 years ago or 3 years ago?

Laylla: Three years ago, yeah.

Chelle: And now that's the deck I use.

Laylla: Her favorite.

Chelle: Yeah, but I never touched it until recently.

Paulina: Yeah. It's your it's your favorite now?

Chelle: I'm using it right now. I I will always go back to the Witches Tarot uh that was that was put out in the early to mid-1990s. That is my all-time favorite. But, currently, I am using the um the Rider-Waite Smith deck.

Paulina: Okay, I love that. We're actually hoping, I mean, not hoping, but we're working on our own tarot deck right now.

Laylla: Ooh, very nice. That's exciting.

Chelle: You'll definitely have to let us know because I will need to I will need to obtain a copy.

Laylla: We'll have to add it to her collection.

Paulina: Yes.

Laylla: Jezmina, same question for you. Do you have a favorite form of divination?

Jezmina: You know, it really varies on who I'm reading for and why. Like, I definitely feel like they they all have their specialties. Tarot is so good for what's happening right now. The palm is so big so good for the big picture and your personality. And but, I do I have a special place in my heart for tea leaf reading just because um I love the ritual of it, and I love how personalized the symbols can be. And I just have such good memories of reading for my family. That was everyone's favorite in my family, so that was when everyone got together and read for each other, and we got to gossip, and it was the most fun.

Laylla: I love that.

Jezmina: Yeah. We are on book tour, actually, throughout October, all the way culminating to a huge festival that we're putting on in New Orleans called the Welcome to Romanistan Festival. And we're doing workshops on tarot, tea leaf reading, palmistry. And so, definitely check out romanistanpodcast.com for our whole tour schedule. And um there are different ways to support the festival, too, if you want to get involved, look for sponsorships.

Laylla: You have a Patreon, right? Tell us Tell people how to find you and how they can support you guys.

Chelle: And give us the name of the podcast so the listeners can go check you out.

Jezmina: Yeah, so we are Romanistan Podcast. That's r-o-m-a-n-i-s-t-a-n. And um our website, romanistanpodcast.com, really has all the best ways to support us. Um right now, we're doing a fundraiser for our book tour and for the festival that we're planning. And um you can listen to us on any podcast platform. We have a very active social media on @romanistanpodcast on Instagram. And so, those are really the best ways to find us and support us. And we also have a Ko-fi fundraiser, which is a little more active than our Patreon at the moment, but you can also be a Patreon subscriber if you want to.

Laylla: Nice. And I'll put links to all of that in the show notes. But, we would like to thank you guys so much for joining us.

Jezmina: Thank you so much for having us.

Laylla: We will definitely put links to everything in the show notes and make sure that people can find your fabulous book, Secrets of Romani Fortune-Telling: Divining with Tarot, Palmistry, Tea Leaves, and More. Chelle and I give it five brooms up. We both love it. Has so much in there. Thank you.

Jezmina: Thank you.

Chelle: And we are hoping to see you when your book tour hits my town October 18th. So any listeners that are going to be in Salem, um, in mid-October, uh, these lovely ladies will be in Salem, uh, promoting their book October 18th. And, um, Jezmina, can you tell us when you're in Salem, we're just going to talk about this one in particular because that's where I'm at, when you're in Salem, where can we find you again?

Jezmina: So actually we have two dates in, so one is technically the, y'all know the shop HausWitch, they have a clubhouse in Peabody. And so we will be there on the 16th and, um, we'll be doing a, um, just a book talk and signing and everything. And then on the 18th at Shaghal Pack in Salem, Massachusetts, we're doing a spirit communication and tarot workshop. And it's going to be so much fun. We have all the details on our website. So they'll be evening workshops and, um, we'll have live music with, um, our Romanistan musician, uh, Victor, uh, who does beautiful flamenco fusion music.

Chelle: We can't wait.

Laylla: Chelle.

Chelle: Yes.

Laylla: Is your couch free that weekend?

Chelle: My couch is free and you are going to be here and we are going to be going into this. Um, so we absolutely cannot wait to meet you ladies in person because we are definitely going to come running up to you and girl-fanning, so.

Jezmina: Oh, we cannot wait to hang out with you in person. It'll be so much fun.

Chelle: Oh, thank you. Hopefully we will see you very soon.

Laylla: Thank you guys again so much. This has been a lot of fun.

Jezmina: Oh, y'all are a delight.

Laylla: Thank you.

Jezmina: Thank you.

Laylla: Take care. Thank you again to Paulina and Jezmina for joining us on our Solarium episode. We really appreciate your time and I had so much fun with them. They're amazing.

Chelle: And guys, you know, seriously, Secrets of Romani Fortune-Telling, excellent book, five brooms. You really need to check it out.

Laylla: And so thank you all for joining us. We really appreciate you listening to our show. Check out our website, our Facebook, our Instagram, Back on the Broomstick, and we will see you on Friday. Stay wise, stay wicked.

Chelle: And for the love of all things holy, keep it witchy.
