Laylla: Hi and welcome to the Solarium, Chelle and Laylla's herb-filled, sunlit sanctuary where we've spent a few days dusting things off, cleaning things, rearranging, and finding all the green growing flowers and maybe a little bit of cannabis in the corners. And today we're in this newly growing space to bring you some books, some tea, some oracle cards, and maybe a surprise guest.

Chelle: And I'm Chelle, and you know, it's funny when you kind of clean and clear, we found some treasures, and we wanted to talk to you about them today. We've got, like Laylla said, we've got some books, we've got some great oracle decks, and I've said a million times in the past, I'm not a huge oracle deck fan, but I actually have a deck that we're going to talk to with a super secret guest today that I actually really like.

Laylla: Out of the two oracle decks that we're looking at today, I would say that our super secret guest's deck is probably my favorite. And we're not going to mention that deck for a minute, but we will tell you what books we've got and the oracle deck that maybe was our second favorite this particular time.

Chelle: Now Laylla, I have something really important before we get into the books.

Laylla: What's that?

Chelle: What are you smoking and what are you drinking?

Laylla: Well, today I am really excited to be drinking cold tea rather than my usual hot.

Chelle: I've turned her, people. I've turned her.

Laylla: Not only that, but this beautiful 80-degree, just after Memorial Day, sunny day has definitely turned me into a cold tea drinker at the moment. Now, it is liberally doused with lemonade. What do they call that, an Arnold Palmer?

Chelle: Arnold Palmer, homemade Arnold Palmer.

Laylla: There you go. Except it's probably like a little more than 50% lemonade because I like it like that. So, yeah.

Chelle: I am actually also drinking tea, a cold tea. I am drinking just some sweet tea. Love me a good sweet tea on a hot day. Even better when it has been sun-tead all morning. And as far as smoking, got a little thing Purple Haze. Been smoking some pre-rolled joints of that. That's been delightful today. Kind of got me in that book and, you know, looking at some decks, reading some books and chill. That's why, you know, a good joint when you're reading is just, mwah, love it.

Laylla: Absolutely perfect. And we are lucky enough to be passing that joint back and forth in the Solarium today in this beautiful sunlit space. We've got some cucumbers up out of the ground, we've got some tomato plants up out of the ground. Did your mint make it at all?

Chelle: I think my mint died in the last overnight surprise freeze.

Laylla: Ah, well, you know, so at least we have most of our plants growing and sprouting and blooming here in the Solarium. So, while we're here passing this joint back and forth and drinking our sun tea, okay, mine is a little more lemonade than tea, but still, we are going to be talking about these books. This first book is from Moon Books Publishing, sent us Pagan Portals: Cerridwen, Keeper of the Cauldron by Danu Forest.

Chelle: Now, I was really excited about this because their series of Pagan Portals books are are pretty good, and I've read a few others from the Pagan Portals, so I was super excited to get this book and read on Cerridwen.

Laylla: Heard a lot about Danu Forest, so I was excited to tackle this one as well. Now, our next books and decks are all from Red Wheel Weiser. The next one we'll be talking about is Tarot Tableau Revolution by Maria Alviz Hernando. Chelle had a little trouble with this one, and I absolutely loved it right from the beginning. But I think after a little coaxing, I've turned Chelle around, and we'll talk about why she may not have liked it at first glance and what turned her around afterwards.

Chelle: Our third book for today is Entering Hekate's Cauldron by Cyndi Brannen. Um, we have done Cyndi Brannen books before, other books in the Hekate series, um, so we're set up for this to be just as good as the other ones we've done in this trilogy.

Laylla: Now, I always love to dig into a good Hekate book, and I have some favorite authors, and I know some people love Cyndi Brannen, some people not so much. I personally, I liked this one.

Chelle: I think this was probably my favorite out of her three, but we'll get into that a little later.

Laylla: Then, we have two oracle decks, and before we introduce who our special guest is going to be, the first oracle deck we'll talk about is called The Initiates Oracle, Marcella Kroll and Adam Smith. This is an oracle deck that is based on experiences that the authors had on their journey through Egypt, so it has a lot of Egyptian influences in it. And it's a very beautiful deck. We were talking about this earlier, and we kind of described it as a cross between American traditional tattoo style and Pennsylvania Dutch artwork was kind of our first impression, and Egyptian came through after that for us, I think, more of like the coloring and the bold lines.

Chelle: Yeah, yeah. I definitely felt that as well.

Laylla: So, we'll talk about that. And then, why don't you introduce who our special guest is going to be once she gets here for a little bit of tea, and what deck of hers we're talking about today.

Chelle: Okay. So, we have the absolute pleasure to bring back again to the show, Judika Illes, and she is going to be talking with us about her oracle called the Magic Spells Oracle deck. So, we are super excited to have Judika here with us today, and we're going to get through some of these other things, and then we're going to bring her on. Yay!

Laylla: Yay! Very excited. We love it when Judika comes on. All right. So, let's start here with Cerridwen, Keeper of the Cauldron by Danu Forest.

Chelle: I liked this book, Laylla. I think that this this book packed a whole big punch in a whole little amount of pages.

Laylla: This book surprised me. It is it is very little. It's a little paperback. It's very small. And I expected what was inside to be small as well. And I was quite surprised at how academic and how thorough the information on Cerridwen is in this little tiny book.

Chelle: You know, I would absolutely say 110% that if you're looking for a book on Cerridwen, um, obviously there are a lot of great books out there, especially the Kristoffer Hughes book on Cerridwen, but if you are looking for something small, compact, and at a at a significant cheaper cost, this is 110% your number one pick. Um, like you said, academic, and, you know, I'm not always one that likes the super academic books, but I was able to get through it. I loved it. I was able to soak in all of what Danu Forest was trying to convey to me about Cerridwen, and I actually, the exercises made me feel it even more, and, you know, I love books that give you exercises to go along with it. So, this was a good one.

Laylla: Cerridwen's story and and some of the stories about Taliesin and her history, her folklore, I really enjoy. And this book went into all of that. And because it's so little, it cuts out a lot of the what you might call fluff. So, you you might consider this book to be a little dry, but only because anything extraneous has been cut out. It's just information, it's well-presented, and it's pretty easy to read, but there isn't anything extra.

Chelle: Yeah, no, I I absolutely agree, but it's still written in a way that that any person of any level can absolutely get a ton of good info out of this book.

Laylla: Absolutely. Love this book. Would absolutely recommend it. And and I love that it's stripped down and it's short. Danu did an excellent job conveying a ton of information in in a very little book.

Chelle: Love Pagan Portals.

Laylla: Five besoms up.

Chelle: Five besoms up.

Laylla: All right. What have we got next?

Chelle: Oh, oh, oh. Yeah. Okay, this one. This book I struggled with a little bit, Tarot Tableau. So, let's talk about that one for a minute.

Laylla: All right. Tarot Tableau Revolution by Maria Alviz Hernando. And I loved this book right from the moment I picked it up because this is how I read tarot, and I didn't realize that there was a name for it, and it's tableau. It's called tableau tarot.

Chelle: I think maybe that's where my struggle was too because I guess once I was able to actually deep dive into it, I realized this is how I read tarot, but I don't know, I guess I'm just weirded out by the fact that it has to have a name now.

Laylla: Tarot Tableau Revolution is all about reading the cards as an interconnected story. The idea is that instead of reading an individual card with its personal meanings combined with the positional meaning that it's in, and then just reading that, that is one encapsulated seed in your reading, rather than doing it that way, a tableau reading is reading everything interconnected together as a story. The position each card is in is just one small part of the story that helps to tell you the nuance where you're looking at with that card. The rest of it is looking at the cards as a whole. What does the picture look like? What's the predominant color? What themes are repeated? What are you drawn to? And then reading the cards all together as if they tell a whole story. And that's how Chelle and I have always read. But this book breaks it down piece by piece and explains how to do that. And I think for Chelle, it felt weird. It was taking something she did instinctively and breaking it up almost like a mathematical formula, and we know how much you love math.

Chelle: No, not mathy, not mathy at all.

Laylla: And this book gets into things that that she would do and I do instinctively, like like say, knighting. There's a section in this book on something called knighting. And it's just what you might think of on a chessboard. Think of how a knight piece moves on a chessboard, kind of like in an L position, up three and over one. You can sometimes see connections with cards like that, like the beginning, the first and last position of a knight's chess move, or in a diagonal. You might see cards in a diagonal and realize that the first and the last card in that diagonal have a directional meaning that correspond to each other. And I think explaining what these things meant in a very precise and mathematical way and and how to do that, like cornering, looking at the cards that might be in each corner and seeing how they relate to each other, it's just different ways of finding correlations and weaving the cards together in a story. And and I think making it clinical made you not like it.

Chelle: And I think that's exactly what it is. And I was I was waiting for you to finish your thought, and I was going to say it felt very it felt very clinical to me. And I'm not saying that it's not good stuff because, you know, like you said, Laylla, it's stuff that we do instinctively. It just it was weird for me to see it mapped out in a book. It'd be like if you were mapping out breathing to me. I'd be like, that's so weird. And that's kind of how I felt about this book. It's not that this book was lacking in any way, shape, or form. It was it was just weird to me.

Laylla: And coming at it from that perspective kind of put you off it a little bit, and you put this up on a shelf.

Chelle: Right, right.

Laylla: And then, and it took me kind of gushing about how much I really enjoyed this book and how it took something that I love to do and explained it in a very interesting way. It took kind of me raving about how much I liked it for you to revisit it. And I think you like it now.

Chelle: And then I had a little had a little aha moment about it. Yeah.

Laylla: So, it's an excellent, interesting way to look at reading tarot cards. And if you would like something that is above and beyond positional meanings of cards and positional reading, where it actually teaches you how to look at the cards symbolically, almost like dream interpretation, interpreting the cards in a full layout, in a full woven tapestry of a story, I love it.

Chelle: As far as our our books go, our final book today, great book, Cyndi Brannen, Entering Hekate's Cauldron: Spells, Spirits, Rites, and Rituals. This is kind of quasi part of a trilogy. Um, she's got Entering Hekate's Garden and Entering Hekate's Cave, and then this book, um, again, Entering Hekate's Cauldron. Great trilogy, but they're standalones, and I think that's what I like about these three books is that the way Cyndi wrote them, they are standalones, but they also can make a great collection. So, this kind of goes over a lot of interesting stuff, you know, ways to honor Hekate. One thing I like is she opens up the book, and I I really have to quote this, and I'm generally not a big quote right from the book, but she writes in the beginning of chapter four, it's called "Calling the Crossroads." "Without darkness, there is no light. Without death, there is no life. Without ending, there is no beginning. Without cut, there is no growth. Without gate, there is no key. Without three, there is no one. Without the crossroads, there is no way." And when I came across that, that just felt like Hekate speaking to me. There are many points in this book where she brings you to a point where you feel like just reading the words off the page, you are reading Hekate's words. Ways to honor her, ways to do ritual around her, you know, how to connect with the deeper world, your deeper self. This is, again, you know, we've I've said before, we've we've reviewed some of her other books, and this is exceptional stuff on Hekate, which we've said before is kind of hard to find. She's broke through a barrier, um, and is giving us the Hekate content we've been looking for.

Laylla: I really liked this book because it breaks everything down basically into how to worship Hekate. And she talks about how to take a ritual bath, how to create an altar. She talks about how to give offerings to Hekate. She talks about how to discover which parts of Hekate you are most drawn to. And if you go through this book, you are basically giving yourself a crash course in how to work with and honor a deity, and how to do that in a very magical, very personal way. And so, I love that, not just for Hekate, but just to give you a framework of how you can work with a deity in your life. And she does talk about other deities in here, working in tarot, working with herbs. It's it's a solid book. I liked it.

Chelle: There's plenty of uh exercises that you could definitely transition to honor other deity. So, that's, you know, there's there's a lot of transferable things in this book as well. Cyndi Brannen has done solid Hekate work, and this is another example of that.

Laylla: Yeah, she's definitely one that's very easy to read. It's very easy on the brain as you go through it. It's still packed with information. And this particular book has a lot of spells. She talks a lot about how to craft your own spells, how to craft rituals. She gives you history and what you could and should do. And it's it's just got a lot of solid information and practical advice on how to do things, not just how to think about Hekate, actually how to practice and worship Hekate.

Chelle: Right. Again, not a not a history book, but more like a workbook, my favorite.

Laylla: All right. So, moving on to the next thing is our first oracle deck of the evening before we get to our special guest, who is taking her boots off and hanging up her broom as we speak. Yay! We have The Initiates Oracle. I open this up, I'm looking at the scarab on the front, I'm looking at the colors, they're bold, they're American traditional tattoo colors. That's all I can think of here.

Chelle: I agree 100%. Yeah. The crow on the front of the book is so cool. Some of this art is just beautiful. If you like that style, bold lines, bold colors, you will definitely like this particular oracle deck. Now, when I saw the back of the cards, my first thought was that it was like Pennsylvania Dutch hex signs. Same, exactly. It's got that look, that boldness, that the sharp lines. This is very American for being Egyptian.

Laylla: I thought Pennsylvania Dutch, too. It's the geometric designs of very bold, sharp, defined colors. And I I can't help it. I see very American designs here. And I saw the scarab on the front, and it looks very Egyptian. I don't mind it, but it feels very much like a mixing of cultures, maybe a mixing of genres here a little bit. Again, don't mind, it just threw me a little.

Chelle: Well, and as you stated, the authors, Marcella Kroll and Adam Smith, had kind of taken a a trip to Egypt, and this is what this deck was inspired on. So, I think that it's definitely a mix of their personal culture and what they gleaned from their trip in Egypt. So, I think that's where we kind of see the cross between that American flair but Egyptian imagery.

Laylla: Marcella Kroll, she lives in Los Angeles, I believe. So, you know, maybe there could be some of that American artwork flavor coming into this very Egyptian deck. But, you know, I kind of dig it. It works. I love the artwork.

Chelle: I do think this is um a very good deck to utilize. This would be something I may pull a card for a spell, you know, if I'm doing doing a spell for something, I may shuffle and pull a card to work with it that way, uh potentially pull a card for a meditation. But again, you know, my jam is tarot. We know this.

Laylla: Now, these cards, again, I'm very much digging the artwork. I like the book. I like the information. And all of it is very interesting. The book gives very solid meanings for these cards. So, it is something that you can use if you, unlike Chelle, if you want to use it as an oracle, you certainly could. But because of the bold of the art, I think I also like putting this on my altar for a little bit of spell boost or meditation boost. Right. They're also very pretty and easy to pull if I'm going to want to do a little bit of creative journaling. These are great as a kickstart to magical journaling as well. So, they do have gold gilding on the edges. They're big, kind of large rectangular cards. And very pretty, dark, very black, black background with bold, bright colors on them. I didn't love the feel of the card stock. If I didn't love that.

Chelle: Very matte. I don't like it.

Laylla: Uh, they do glide pretty easily. They do shuffle pretty easily. I just didn't love the feel.

Chelle: And they sound weird when they shuffle. But they're pretty good cards. I like them. I was pretty happy with them.

Laylla: But, I see that the pointy-toed shoes have been put away. The broom has been successfully put out to pasture with our brooms.

Chelle: And we're not alone anymore. Here to help us review the Magic Spells Oracle is our returning guest and author, Judika Illes. Welcome back, Judika.

Judika: Thank you for having me back.

Chelle: We're so glad you were able to come back and visit with us again. We loved chatting with you before, and we are looking forward to having a conversation tonight because we've got we've got a good one here.

Judika: Likewise, we had fun last time, so I think it's going to be really fun too.

Chelle: And we've been having fun with your deck. Now, this is the Magic Spells Oracle, and this is a 36 oracle card deck, and it comes with a booklet that explains the cards. And I love that the booklet gives a little bit of information about magic and how you want people, well, not how you want people to use the cards, but some good ideas on how to use the cards, including some excellent spreads and different ways that they can be utilized.

Judika: You know, you can never assume who your readers will be and what they'll know and how how did this book or deck or whatever come into their hands. So, this could be, you know, somebody who knows nothing about spellcasting could receive this as a gift. And I I wouldn't want them not to be able to enjoy it and use it.

Chelle: I think you can say the same exact thing about a seasoned reader or a seasoned practitioner, that this also strikes a chord. So, I think the lovely thing about this is it is, I don't know if this was your intention, but it was designed for anywhere from you have never touched an oracle deck before to you are super familiar with oracle decks and have years of experience.

Judika: Yeah, that was my intention. Yeah, that was my intention, and I think, um, I've been reading cards professionally for, like, I'm embarrassed to say for how long.

Chelle: We don't say either. We don't say either, Judika.

Judika: You hear yourself and you're like, "Oh my god, how how did I?" But, you know, if you're experienced enough as a diviner, you can read pretty much anything. That's just you just become a reader and you look around and you read everything as a sign. So, you can't let those readers down. But also, there could be real beginners, and, you know, you want that to be a positive experience either way.

Chelle: Absolutely.

Laylla: I really enjoyed reading the beginning of your booklet, reading the first part, because as someone who's been practicing for a minute, it was still very nice to read. You still broke everything down very interestingly. You talked about how magic is natural. I loved how you, it was a good reminder that you gave everyone, that magic is part of nature. It's part of the world. It's part of everyone.

Chelle: It's part of yourself.

Laylla: Yeah. And and that can be a good reminder no matter where you are. Like you said, if you know nothing about cards or magic, that gave you a very good introduction. And if you are someone who knows, it was a very good reminder.

Judika: I hear from a, I may hear from a disproportionate number of people who are depressed about lack of success, or they feel somehow they can't, they can't cast a spell, they can't read a card, it didn't work. And there is sort of, I think, this this feeling that is expressed by many people that it comes from within you, that the magic is in you, and so if you can't do it, you're a failure. But it's not true. It's just about it's tapping into something that is our birthright and our heritage, and it occurs naturally, and it's not bad, you know, it's not a sinful thing. It's, any more than the sky or the air, it's it's it's there for us to use. And there are a lot of reasons why sometimes it's that's a challenging thing to do, but it doesn't mean that you're not a magical person or you're less magical than somebody who's out, you know, boasting about their prowess.

Laylla: Yeah, exactly. One of the things that Chelle and I love to say is, do it wrong. Don't be afraid to do it wrong. Get dirty.

Chelle: Do it wrong. Just do it.

Laylla: Just do it. Yeah.

Judika: Yeah, sometimes that's more interesting, you know, play with it and see what happens.

Laylla: Mhm, exactly. And if you're afraid to do it wrong, if you're afraid that you're not going to, you know, be powerful enough, then you're not going to play with it. You're not going to find those things out. You're not going to get that experience.

Judika: Every magic spell, magical energy is natural, but magical spells are people, thousands of years of people experimenting with it and playing with it and tweaking it and tweaking something that somebody else already tweaked. So, you should go and tweak it too, see what your intuition tells you. And, you know, I hope the I hope these cards facilitate that. That was that was one of the goals.

Laylla: Yes, and, you know, you even mention in your book, The Encyclopedia of 5,000 Spells, in here, you're like, make your own stuff up, but you don't have to reinvent the wheel. I've got you if you if you need suggestions, but the idea is there to try things and to make things up and to put them together and see what works.

Judika: Right. Right, and sometimes you read something and you go, "That's great." It's like a recipe. "That's great, but if I was doing it, I would do it just a little bit different." Do it. See what happens.

Chelle: With this deck, you added two balance cards. And and I really was intrigued by these because the deck was kind of divided out, um, by elements: earth, air, fire, water. And you've got these two balancing cards. So, I get the concept behind them, but what was what were you thinking, I guess is my question, because—

Judika: What was I thinking? This came from, honestly, this came from discussions with my editor. You know, the response I have received for this deck is has been very, very positive from people who originally learned spellcasting from an elemental perspective. You know, that was the first thing they learned. But that was not the first thing that I learned. I came to that later. And although, you know, in my spell books, there are, we do talk about the elements and how you use them in spellcasting, that that was not the foundation of my practice. And so, and I'm working with the team who did work on 5,000 Spells, and we were, so we were really talking about this, and they really they really wanted to talk about elements. And I don't know, I had issues, and what, and it comes from my own astral chart. I mean, I recommend everybody, because our, in the West, your natal chart is is, um, consists of those four elements: air, earth, fire, water. I don't have any air in my chart. I don't have a balancing chart. I have no planets in air signs, but I have a fairy godmother who gave me an air rising sign. That balances me. So, it was something that was in my head. What if, what if everything is fire? What if, you know, try as you might, you're not getting any earth and you feel, but you can have a balancing card that sort of supplements what you lack. I would be, if I, I mean, my my Aries rising is at zero degrees. It is really like a fairy godmother.

Chelle: Wow.

Judika: Barely.

Chelle: Barely.

Judika: Barely, barely. If I had been, you know, if I had been born 20 minutes earlier, I would, I would be a very different person. So, I think that was something that was in my mind. And I mean, it's something that I, when I do, I do people's charts for them. I always, one of the first things I do there, there I'm very elemental. I break things into elements. So, I guess it was just in my mind. And that that aspect that you, you know, magic spells are intended to make your life better. But the reality is we are not all born, we're not all born equal. Some people have, you know, great parents and good health and, you know, economic advantages.

Laylla: Yeah.

Judika: And some people do not, you know, some people do not have any of those things. But so, it's, you know, one of the things that magic spells do is they even the playing field. No, you know, I don't have this advantage, and I, you know, if you have enough money or if you have enough power, maybe you can get things done, most things done without spellcasting. But for the rest of us, spells are, that's your, you know, if you learn how to do it, you can improve your life. You can work towards your dreams. And so, I guess that's what I was thinking with the balancing cards. What if you don't have a good hand? Well, the balancing cards can come and kind of—

Chelle: Even that playing field.

Judika: Yeah, level it out for you so that you you can move forward.

Chelle: And I like that they're, I like that they're like kind of that scale and then the yin and the yang, because it kind of gives you that balancing feeling, like you're coming back to an equilibrium.

Judika: Well, this sort of, you know, I mean, I guess a metaphysical sort of assumption that there is a level playing field, that there is a place where we start. And then things sometimes go wrong or go right, or then they first they go right and then they go wrong, you know. You can get into a lot of trouble with a lot of money, too. Um, there's all sort, you know, it's not necessarily a blessing. It might look like a blessing, it's not necessarily. Or it's a blessing at the right moment, right place at the right time. But at the wrong place at the wrong time, it can be a problem for you. So, you know, I mean, that that might be a little hazy. I don't know if that sounds hazy, but I mean, I have a chart with, you know, no planets in air, but a lot of planets in water, and so that's—

Laylla: Outlook may be hazy is part of your charm. Is that what you're saying?

Judika: Yes.

Laylla: One of the things that I found deceptively simple about these cards, when I first got them, I was like, "Wow, these are very simple." And so, I started looking through them, and and they are. They are very similar. They have a crow. Is that a crow on the back? They have a crow on the back.

Judika: Yeah, a crow on the back. Yeah.

Laylla: Which I love. And then they they all have a very similar look. They have the same background, they have the same circle with the crescent of gold, and a simple design. And the more I worked with them, the more I really appreciated that, because the way I found I liked working with these cards is very symbolically. I like using them as part of a spell. If I was doing a spell where I needed to be traveling, I might grab the Flying Witch card, which is a broom, which of course I love. And I would place this on my altar with my other spell components to pull in that energy, to give me that focal point. And I found they work fabulously for that. I love them for that. And Chelle, when we were talking about this, the other thing that I like to do that I found out that Chelle does too is—

Chelle: Kind of make them like a supplemental pull. So, you know, you do a little spread, and then, you know, you've you've laid out your spread, you shuffle these up, and you kind of pull, I don't want to call it a significator card, because that wasn't really how I looked at it, but kind of like a framing the rest of the the reading, the tarot reading. So, this this I think is also a good tool to combine with a tarot reading.

Judika: I, uh, I do something very similar, and this was not my intent, but I I try to use my own cards, and I find that at the end of tarot readings, I pull, you know, when you're concluding, I pull one out as a gift.

Laylla: Oh.

Judika: What what does the, what does the universe want to give you? There's there's no bad cards in here. So, there's no, "Oh my god, this is terrible." Everything here is pretty much everything here is something I like. I I am not the artist, but I did pick what the images were going to be. So, every, there's there's nothing here that I dread. Like, you know, sometimes everybody's got a couple tarot cards that makes them nervous, and it's like, "Oh my god, please let it not be this one."

Chelle: So, you knew you wanted to use the phoenix, and then they created—

Judika: Yeah, yeah. I mean, we talked about, we we were dividing them up into the elements and what the actual images, and and they, the publisher gave me a number. "We're going to have this number of cards." So, that was, you know, this was this was very much a collaboration.

Chelle: Collaboration.

Judika: Yeah, it was a collaboration. But yeah, I mean, the phoenix is a lot of spiritual and personal significance for me. You know, my birthstone is in here.

Laylla: I'm glad you said that, because these cards speak to me in your voice. They feel very blunt. They feel very happy to give you information. They're just like, "Here's your info, here's your nugget, here's your nugget, here's your nugget." And that's what I like them for at the end of a tarot reading, is it very succinctly gives me just a little nugget at the end. You know, if you pull an extra card, sometimes that can be very ambiguous, might leave you down another path, it gives you more questions. These do not. These would very clearly, yeah, and I loved that.

Judika: Although you can read it like that. I mean, you could read it for, "What do I need to know?" or "What is coming into my life?" You could read it like that.

Laylla: I love the gift.

Judika: Yeah.

Laylla: Gift idea. I love that. I'm going to use that next time.

Judika: You know, I wanted these, these cards have to serve a lot of purposes. And that's some with tarot cards. People create tarot cards, and people use them for different purposes, but we don't necessarily think about that when we're creating the deck. But oracle cards, the difficult thing and the beautiful thing about oracle cards is there's no rules. It's kind of chaos. So, you can read with these cards, you can use them as supplemental cards, but I also wanted people to use them in spellwork. I find when I read tarot, I spend a lot of time looking at the backgrounds and the details and as I'm reading, but I didn't, I I wanted this to be very direct, just—

Chelle: Short and to the point.

Judika: Yeah, although I mean, it will have different, I mean, everybody's going to look at a dragon in a different way. I mean, is a dragon something you like? Is a dragon something that you perceive as negative? Is a dragon something that you see as fanciful? I mean, there is a personal aspect to it.

Laylla: Yeah, symbology is different, and and and you mention Jung in here when you mention synchronicity, but symbology gets to that as well, that whole idea of of archetypes, and and some of it is universal, but a lot of it is so personal. You know, it's cultural, it's time period, it's who you are, you know, there's so many different ways to interpret things. So, that's another reason why I liked that these cards give you room to do that. They give you room to put that, whatever meaning you have for those symbols.

Judika: You know, if you work with sacred imagery, I mean, I, you know, you can't assume, in the same way that you can't assume who your readers are going to be, you can't assume that we all look at an image and see the same thing.

Laylla: Mhm.

Judika: So, you know, it's like holy cards of Saint Patrick. Do you see Saint Patrick, or if you don't know the story, do you see Damballah, you know, the the the serpent deity, because it could be that the snakes are more interesting than, you know. Or if you have another, like if you show pictures to children who don't know, you know, they haven't been indoctrinated, they don't know what the stories are, what do they see? We can all look at the Mona Lisa, but are we all seeing the same thing?

Laylla: I like the idea of trying to look at things with more of an innocent eye, to look at things, you know, and try to strip back your biases a little bit and just look at it with a fresh view.

Judika: Well, when I teach tarot, that's one of the first things I do, is I I ask people to tell me, you know, write down, "What do you see?" Take a card, let's go through the cards, suit by suit or, you know, Major Arcana, "What do you see?" And people will tell me something, like they'll see the Death card, and, "Oh, it doesn't mean death." That's the first thing they say. "That doesn't really mean death." But I I don't want to know what it means or what it doesn't mean. Because because now you're telling me something you've heard or you know. Just tell me what you see. And that's a good thing with spellcasting, too, because a lot of it is, what do you see? What do you hear? What do you feel? Not what other people have told you or what you think you, you know, "I don't feel bad." Well, you know, are you sure? Maybe you do feel bad. There's no shame in feeling bad. So, so I I did want that, that sort of very direct, "What do you see?"

Laylla: I love that. And and they they do come across that way, and I love, I love how blunt they are. But I also noticed when I was going through this, I usually don't love keywords on tarot cards. I don't love keywords on tarot cards.

Judika: Me too.

Laylla: On these, I liked them. On these, I liked them, and I liked that they were, they were good here, but I really liked the fact that you didn't repeat them in the book, that the descriptions and the meanings in the book went much deeper than those three keywords, and and it really gave a lot more depth. But you you can go quick and dirty with those keywords if you want to, but then for more reflection, you can go and get more information in the book.

Judika: If I was creating a deck from, just for myself, I probably wouldn't have keywords.

Laylla: Mhm.

Judika: But, and in all honesty, I have decks that I love, like the Goddess Oracle by Amy Sophia Marashinsky. I love that deck. I I ignore a lot of, I just don't read the keywords.

Laylla: I try to ignore them too, usually, when they're on a deck.

Judika: But, you know, a lot of people really like keywords, and a lot of people expect to see keywords. So, they were created at different times. I mean, the book, that's sort of a freshly written book.

Laylla: Mhm.

Judika: The keywords, it was decided that the deck needed keywords.

Laylla: It's okay. Like I said, I'm okay with it. Usually, I don't love them, but in this particular case, I was okay with it. Again, because I use these a lot for spellwork, and so to have those keywords right there. In divination, not going to love it, because I'm I'm a word person, so my brain wants to look at them.

Judika: Yeah.

Laylla: And I have a hard time not looking at them. But here, it was okay. It worked out okay, so I would, I wouldn't worry too much about that.

Judika: In the design, for people who haven't seen the cards, they're, um, you know, it's a sort of blue background, and the keywords are small and white.

Laylla: Mhm.

Judika: And they're there for you if you want them, but I think they're, if you are someone who doesn't like keywords, they're not hard to ignore.

Laylla: No, they blend into the bottom. The pictures—

Chelle: I was just going to say, I look at them as kind of a jumping-off point. They're a good jumping-off point, but then you need to dive a little deeper beyond the three words, but they're a good starting jumping-off point.

Judika: I I think it's also, there was some concern from the editorial staff. I perceive everything, you know, they're, you know, I'm looking right now, I'm looking at the Mermaid card, and I'm working, you know, you know, the keywords are wealth, enchantment, secrets. And that is derived from mythology. That's pretty, you know, it comes from some place. It's grounded, it's rooted in that. And I think there was this fear that if you didn't have anything, people might veer off into all kinds of—

Laylla: Oh no, they might have their own ideas. How dare they?

Judika: No, no, no.

Laylla: They might get off track, you mean?

Judika: But but but that they might wander, I don't know. There's a lot of negative stuff out there.

Laylla: Sure. Oh, good point, good point.

Judika: A lot of very sensational negative stuff. And if you are new, you know, if you do not know that mermaids are associated with wealth, um, if you are only watching creepy podcasts, you might think that, you know, mermaids just want to eat people.

Laylla: Yes.

Judika: Or drown you or something. So, there's, you know, but at least to give people a a little bit of a direction that, no, this is, this is not, you know, this is something that is intended to be positive and, I don't want to say uplifting, but magic spells, I mean, I keep going back to this, magic spells are supposed to make your life better.

Laylla: Yes.

Judika: They're supposed to make your life better. They're not supposed to leave you to terrible places. They're supposed to get you out of terrible places. But people are afraid of them, um, especially if you don't know, or if you've been given a lot of, you know, they there's a lot of bad press. So, I I I think that was more the the concern that at least to sort of encourage people to see things in a positive light, to see things in a, you know, and if you're not sure about it, you can go, you know, if you Google Mermaid and Wealth, you'll get a lot of stories. You can, you know, it's a place for you to start. It's a jumping-off point for you.

Chelle: Absolutely. And then you can kind of form your own, um, your own meaning, your own thoughts from that jumping-off point.

Judika: Right.

Laylla: And that's a good point. It looks like this whole deck, like you said, is very positive. And and it appears to me, you know, it like gifts of information, you know, nuggets of wisdom. And so having those keywords a certain way isn't so much, you know, like I was joking earlier that you're trying to like force people down a path, but you're this has a vibe. This deck has a positive vibe. And so you're you're giving that side of it in that information, but then from there, you know, then they can go and and kind of take that and take that information.

Chelle: Deeper dive.

Laylla: Yeah.

Judika: I love witches, and I love spellcasting. I love magic. You know, sometimes I have people talk to me and they say, "Well, you know, I don't believe in that." And what comes out of my mouth naturally, not anymore because it's happened enough and I can talk about it, is, "I feel so sorry for you. That's so That's so That's so sad, a world with no magic in it, a world where there is nothing in it other than what you can see and touch for yourself." And it's just to me that seems sad. We live in a world of wonders with all this just incredible It's not all positive. I I am, you know, not at all positive. I'm not a Pollyanna at all. But magic can make your life better. And I wanted this these cards Because we were, you know, these cards didn't come out of nowhere. I was working with the team from 5,000 Spells. It's a collaboration between my uh my British HarperCollins people and the Weiser people here in America. So, um I I wanted this to work as a magical tool as well as an oracular device. And so, I wanted that sort of clean, energetic, you know, you might certainly bring negativity, you know, any person. I I mean, that's that's absolutely up to you. But I wanted these cards to be able to In the same way that you can use a beautiful magic wand. I I have a beautiful, beautiful bog oak wand that somebody gave me that I treasure. That wand is just so It's a beautiful and powerful tool. Could you use it for something negative? Sure. Could you come come up with negative associations? Of course. You know, people have We have fertile imaginations. But it is a beautiful tool, and I wanted these cards also to be beautiful tools for whatever you choose to do with them.

Chelle: And I think you hit the nail on the head with making it a cross between a magical spellcraft tool as well as an oracle and a tarot companion, which might not have been your initial intention. But I think you hit the You hit the nail on the head with all of that.

Judika: But it worked out, didn't it? I find that's what I use it for, you know, probably the most.

Chelle: Same. I I really like that. I I like it as a meditation focus, pull a card at the beginning of the day and and not so much as an oracle, but more as a, "You know, what kind of energy should I focus on? What does the universe want me to focus on today?" kind of thing.

Judika: You know, um you know, you have like special dates like New Year's or a birthday or something. I always pull tarot cards for myself.

Laylla: Yeah, us too.

Judika: Or I I pull goddess cards for myself. I pull, you know, you know, what I find I'm pulling cards from here also. Mhm. So, I I find it really works for that. Like, what what do I Here I am in at this at this juncture in time. What do I need?

Chelle: I like that. What I love is that not every author and creator necessarily uses their own tools. So, I love that you actually use this deck and pull from this deck and it, you know, you are the creator of this and utilize it. And I love that because not every creator and author does that.

Judika: You know how I know when my work is good? When I find myself using it. Absolutely. That's a good clue, yeah. I have um I have my encyclopedias. I have like the the books, the hardcovers, but they're big. And I I also have them on on my Kindle, digital copies, because they're so easy to search because some When I start searching my own stuff, I know I am okay.

Laylla: You know you've done well.

Judika: Which for some reason, I still tell people, I don't know why, and I know we talked about this when we spoke like a year and a half ago, for some for some reason, I still think it's 50,000 Spells.

Judika: Oh my god.

Laylla: I know.

Judika: You know, when we started doing that book, I I had done an earlier book. It's been republished at Weiser as Magic When You Need It, but it was originally Emergency Magic at Fair Winds, which was an imprint started by a man um named Greg Brandenburgh, who I have worked with for years. And Greg ended up leaving Fair Winds and going to HarperCollins UK. And he approached me about doing an encyclopedia of spells. And that was the conversation because the early book had like 150 spells. And he knew I had a spell collection. I just had shoe boxes. I I just thought they were interesting. I have shoe boxes and shoe boxes full of, you'll remember, you'll never find them later. So, I had shoe boxes and shoe boxes handwritten spells. And he said, "Can we do 1,000 spells?" And I said, "Sure." And, "Can we do 3,000? Can we do 5,000?" At one point, it was 10,000. And I was trying to talk him into doing another book. So, I so I kept saying, "Sure, sure," and going back to, "Don't you want to do this instead?" But then he hooked me. He would have been so happy to do I mean, not true because he said 5,000, and he goes, "What do you think, 450 pages? That's a big book." And I said, "Yeah." It is. I I must admit that is a large, large book. Oh, I wept. I didn't know how I mean, at the end, I that book was not written consecutively. I had a wonderful editor, and I just kept I I did not I never saw the book until it was published. I was really I was late. I knew I was it was too long. I mean, for people who don't know the book, okay, my contract said said 450 pages, but the book itself is over 1,000 pages.

Chelle: Yeah.

Judika: I didn't know. I didn't know. Um they could have canceled it because I I mean, I was breaking my contract left and right. Oh, yeah. They were very I mean, Greg really protected me because I was just so depressed, so depressed. But the book, you know, you have to That book was like a horse, a runaway horse, and I was just trying to hold on. That book went where it wanted.

Chelle: I know that feeling.

Judika: Right? The book wanted to go where it wanted to go. So, it turned into over 1,000 pages. But I didn't know. I was sending them Nothing was numbered because I couldn't look. Mhm. Yeah. I literally couldn't look. Probably good you didn't know. Oh, I would have been so I mean, I was already so depressed. I was already And I was trying to be fun. So, it's, you know, it's hard to sort of write fun when You're not feeling fun. You're feeling uh over the edge a little bit, maybe. Oh, oh, oh, like free fall. Oh, wow. Yeah. You you nailed it, though. You nailed it right out of the park because that book is still a reference. People grab that. It's on my bookshelves. It's on Chelle's bookshelves. I still see people recommend it. I recommend it to people. It is a wonderful reference to have.

Judika: You know, it's been 20 years. So, I I I and I'm okay with that now. But when I wrote it, I was so depressed. I thought no I mean, it was a time when that book was first published, people were not as into folk magic, and that book is largely folk magic. Right. Right. I thought people were not going to like it. They were not going to buy it. I was going to I had been working, you know, I had been working uh selling cosmetics before because I'm an aromatherapist, and I understand like if you show me a label, skin care, I can tell you why the things are in there. There's a lot there's a lot of essential oils and plant extracts. I thought, "Oh, jeez, I'm going to have to go back to selling, you know, skin care in the mall again. No one's going to buy this." And and, you know, here I am 20 years later, so.

Chelle: Speaking of 20 years later, you went from 5,000 Spells, which I will try not to say 50,000, you went from 5,000 Spells to the Magic Spell Oracle. Any parting words that you have for our listeners, anything else you want to convey about this wonderful oracle deck?

Judika: I I hope that this deck I hope in 20 years this deck is still working in the same way that it is now. I I try to do things that are as timeless as I can so that, you know, that they're not just you use them and then you throw them away and you get something else. I try to really tap into that real ancient, authentic magic. And I I hope I mean, this this deck was created with a lot of love, and I hope that it brings joy and happiness and empowerment to whoever uses it.

Laylla: I definitely would say that has come through. So, thank you.

Judika: Oh, thank you. That means a lot to me. Thank you.

Chelle: I appreciate you sharing this with us. Thank you so much.

Judika: Oh, thank you.

Laylla: All right. Thank you again, Judika, for joining us on Back on the Broomstick. We hope to have you back again in the future.

Judika: Oh, anytime. I would love to.

Laylla: Wonderful. Well, thank you.

Judika: Thank you.

Laylla: And thank you so much for listening to this episode of Back on the Broomstick in the Solarium. And thank you to Moon Books and Red Wheel Weiser for providing the books and oracle decks today. And, of course, a huge thank you to our super secret special guest, Judika Illes. Please join us on Friday for our regularly scheduled episode. And until then, stay wise, stay wicked, and keep it witchy.
