Speaker 1: It's witchcraft.

Speaker 2: Hey and welcome to a special lunar wheel of the year episode of The Stoned, which is our. Today we'll be talking about the new moon in January, the wolf moon, the stay at home moon, and we'll talk about all the different things that you can do on a new moon. What's good, what's bad, our tips, tricks, things we like. So bringing you some new moon information today. I'm Laylla.

Chelle: And I am Chelle, and I just want to say that we are going to also talk about not only all of the things that Laylla mentioned, but we're going to touch on a little bit why we're talking about the new moon. You know, usually the hubbub is always the full moon this, the full moon that. So we're going to also touch a little bit on why we're talking about the new moon and what that means to us.

Speaker 2: Now we have been talking about the new moon for a very long time, about 30 years ago with Circle Our Coven, Circle Alomarat. Instead of our aspects being every month on the full moon, we had our celebrations every month on the new moon within our coven. And a lot of that had to do with

Chelle: Yeah. Yeah.

Speaker 2: the fact that you start things on the new moon. You know, the full moon is all about culminations, but it's not a time to set intentions really. It's really about a time to gather those intentions you've already set, probably at the new moon.

Chelle: Right. And you know, I think that that this is the overlooked one. I think it's associated it's it's misdirected association, but it's associated with, you know, bad, evil. You know, there's there's the yin and the yang, the light and the dark. This is the dark, the spooky, the scary. We don't want to go there, mysterious. I don't know. That's what draws me to it.

Speaker 2: And it very often can be that the dark is mysterious and we're afraid of it a little bit. And it's not that full moon night where everything is a glow and with that silver light and touched with a little bit of magic. This is a more of a time where it's not as outwardly pretty. It's time more to go within.

Chelle: And that and that's I think what that is the true quote unquote scariness of the new moon is everything is just not presented all out in front of you like it is for the full moon. The light is shining on everything. This is where you've actually you've got to take a minute and go within. And sometimes you got to go places you don't want to go. That's that's the nature of life. You got to sometimes evaluate things that aren't comfortable and address things that aren't fun. If you do not do that, you do not grow.

Speaker 2: Oh, that's a very good point. And now this month, January, the new moon, as we've talked before, in our tradition, these things are a three day event, the day before, the day of, and the day after. And this month, the moon will be new on exactly 3:55 p.m. Eastern Time on January 21st, but you can celebrate that January 20th, 21st, and 22nd.

Chelle: The newest, the newest of the new moon.

Speaker 2: The newest of the new.

Chelle: And you know, and here's the funny thing, I never called it the new moon. I don't know why. I don't why is it called new? Is it new? Are we Well, it is new. We're starting over. But to me, it was always the dark moon just because it was it wasn't there. It was hiding. There's no light. It's dark, dark.

Speaker 2: The moon is there. It's still there, complete and able to be seen. It's just not illuminated. It's dark. It's the dark of the full moon. It's the the exact opposite.

Chelle: Right. And I love those nights, and it doesn't happen every time, uh maybe a couple times a year, but I love, love, love when it is the dark moon and you can still see it. You can see like the outline very very vaguely of the outline, but there's no light emanating from it whatsoever. I love that. That's so creepy and spooky. Love it.

Speaker 2: Oh, and it's so beautiful. And doing ritual under a new moon like that was a great way to set short-term goals. Like we talked before about cycles. In our first wheel of the year, we were doing the bigger cycles, the seasonal cycles. And now we're doing the smaller monthly cycles. You know, even within those monthly cycles, you set your intentions at the new moon and to have that short goal of to just two weeks, just two weeks later at the full moon. Is it just two weeks later? It really is.

Chelle: It is. Yeah, just two weeks later at the full moon. So that's a very short-term goal, but then you can kind of also extrapolate that short-term goal into maybe a year long goal, maybe to do that every moon cycle. You know, and kind of to live these smaller cycles within the bigger cycles is a is a very natural kind of way to to live magically in connection.

Speaker 2: And you know, you you as much as the emphasis is on the full moon, this is this is the time to manifest new beginnings. You know, whether you want, I don't know, new beginnings with a job or new beginnings with a relationship or or maybe you've got a hobby you want to start or a project you want to take to the next level. And I think that was some of the draw, not all of it, but some of the draw that our coven liked and and and where we kind of focused on that new moon was we liked that manifestation piece.

Chelle: I was actually going to fan girl all over the whole manifestation thing because I love manifestation. I not your not your like pretty girl manifestation of I get everything that I want, but more of the kind of you put in the work, you put in the the preparation and the intention and the meditation and the visualization. And this is a a great time to do a vision board, especially because this is the first new moon of the year. And so setting those intentions for the whole year is something that you can do right now as well. And so

Speaker 2: Right. planting those seeds that you can so that you can sow them and reap your rewards down the road.

Chelle: Right. And planting a seeds isn't as simple as saying I want to have pumpkins. Isn't that going to be great? It it doesn't happen like that. You have to You have to prepare the soil, you have to get the seeds, you have to actually plant them and then care for them and nurture them.

Speaker 2: Water them. Yep, yep.

Chelle: Water them and take care of it. Manifestation isn't simply wishing for something. There's actual work that goes in behind the scenes for manifestation. The goddess is not going to just give you something. She wants to see you actually put the work in for it as well.

Speaker 2: Right. I feel like the latest TikTok trend I've been finding is everything involves a ritual bath full of flowers and oils and crystals.

Chelle: Well, shit. Yeah, who the fuck doesn't love a good ritual bath? They're amazing.

Speaker 2: I'm telling you. I am not denying the fact that I I want to go buy myself a claw foot bathtub and fill it with fresh flowers and

Chelle: Hell yes, and buy all of the bath bombs, all of them.

Speaker 2: I do. I do. But that isn't what I'm thinking of when I'm thinking of a new moon ritual like that silly that's like that doesn't even come to my mind, let alone be the first or the last. Like it's not even in the realm.

Chelle: No, I love one. I mean, you can turn a bath into a ritual very very easily. Sure.

Speaker 2: You can, but the way it's being portrayed right now on social media, especially TikTok, I just find it mind-blowing because you know, when I'm thinking of new moon rituals, I'm thinking of things, you know, how how can I connect to like my deepest dreams and desires?

Chelle: Yeah, I'm thinking journaling. I am thinking meditation. You know, I am thinking kind of really getting into it.

Speaker 2: And getting rid of stagnant energy and and and getting releasing what no longer serving me.

Chelle: Yeah. Oh my gosh, yes. Oh yes. And can you do that in a bath? Sure, especially if you're if you're doing that meditation and that work during the bath and then visualizing all those things kind of being released as the bath is draining. Sure.

Speaker 2: Yeah. But they're portraying that as the only way. They're portraying that as the only way. And I'm not even

Chelle: Oh no, that's just the that's just the most visually pleasing way. That's an easy way to look good and get likes on social media because it's ritual baths are beautiful. Any ritual can be beautiful. And we have a very instagrammable religion. It can be pretty.

Speaker 2: Yeah. Right. But it also can be you sitting down and jotting down notes in a notebook on how you're going to go from where you are to the next level and whatever that may be, mind, body, spirit, project, hobby, work, love, relationships, I don't know. Maybe it's you and I sitting here talking about how we're going to take our podcast to the next level.

Chelle: Exactly.

Speaker 2: Those those things can all be turned into rituals.

Chelle: And it doesn't have to be your leather bound handmade paper perfect journal with the pen and the gorgeous laid out desk.

Speaker 2: It can be your spiral me notebook.

Chelle: Exactly. Exactly. Because as much as I love a beautifully laid out altar, as much as the rest of us, we're all magpies at heart. Don't say we're not.

Speaker 2: Right.

Chelle: It doesn't have to be like that and it's unaffordable. It's unattainable for most of us to have that beautiful TikTok background, that beautiful Instagram altar, the the gorgeous YouTube spell components. I don't have all of that, but what I do have works and it's solid. And that's okay too.

Speaker 2: And you know, this is the new moon it lends itself to journaling. I don't know why, but it does.

Chelle: Oh, it's so introspective. It's perfect. I love that. I I like vision boarding. I like either digitally or physically making some type of collage that that actually envisions the things that I want. And writing it down works too. I love writing that in a journal, what I'm looking for, what my intentions are. Like you said, like like what we're trying to manifest, where we're trying to go.

Speaker 2: Right. What seeds are you trying to plant either for this month, this week, or or being being the first new moon of January, you know, what are you planning for the year?

Chelle: Right, exactly. Cycles within cycles. It's all about these small little things that we do on the day-to-day cycle that translate to monthly, to seasonally, to the whole year, to your life.

Speaker 2: And you know, I sometimes take things back to tarot.

Chelle: Well, you have so many decks. I am not surprised. They're on your mind often.

Speaker 2: I just got a new one and I got

Chelle: Oh, 151. Fuck yeah.

Speaker 2: And I got one that my my beautiful Amazon man should be delivering later this week, 152.

Chelle: Fabulous.

Speaker 2: But you know, good time to maybe clear your deck. You know, maybe that's that that that's a thing. That's a housekeeping thing people don't do relatively often. You forget.

Chelle: Good point.

Speaker 2: You know, honestly, Laylla, no lying here. When was the last time you put your deck in order and cleansed it?

Chelle: Which one? Some of them I do more often than others. On the usual, no, you're right. Sometimes I put it out to charge under the full moon, but you 're right. The whole cleansing thing is not something I do as often as I I would like.

Speaker 2: And you know, there's something to be said for that. That's actually a habit I'm trying to get into is is doing that because you know, ick can attach to your tarot cards just like ick can attach to your spirit. Damn it.

Chelle: Yeah, for sure for sure. And it's always a good idea to kind of cleanse that and just start over again. And new moon's a great time to do that.

Speaker 2: Right. And especially if you 're doing readings for other people with your decks, you want to take a minute, cleanse that shit. But also, you know, same with the chakra thing, you know, doing a once a month chakra alignment, cleansing, um whatever floats your boat, doing that on the moon new moon, not a bad idea, not a bad habit to get into. So you know, you don't have to have this salt circle and I got my frankincense and myrrh. You you know, you don't need to have $800 in crystals and $400 in tools. Maybe it's you just sitting there cleansing your shit, just taking a minute and being like, let me realign.

Chelle: Oh, you just kind of hit on something and I think I know now why ritual baths are so popular.

Speaker 2: Why?

Chelle: It's literal cleansing.

Speaker 2: We're dirty dirty birds.

Chelle: It's a it's a literal cleansing. And so that makes it very very easy to visualize because as we

Speaker 2: I am taking my tarot deck in the tub with me.

Chelle: No, no, no. But what I'm saying is that for people that are trying to promote a quick fix or or easy magic, something that is a literal one to one conversion, a bath is cleansing. That visualization is right there for you. It's it's done. It 's done. You You don't even have to pretend. You're in a bath. You are being cleansed magically as well as physically. So it's a very easy one to one conversion. Whereas if you're familiar with energy work and you have worked on it, you could sit in a meditative space and envision yourself being cleansed in all sorts of ways through a crystal bath, through a moonlight or sunlight bath, through a a shower of flower petals, whatever. You know, you can visualize that cleansing and have it be very powerful and work. Or you could shortcut it and take an actual bath or actually stand under a waterfall, which is also powerful and great and works, but it's easier. It's it's right there.

Speaker 2: Waterfall. Yeah. Right. And unfortunately, I think we're we're living in a time currently of what I like to call Mick Magic, the McDonald's version of magic. I want my magic and I want it now. And it it's a it 's a, you know, kind of like these these courses you can, you know, learn tarot in an hour. You're not learning tarot in an hour, my friend. And And sometimes there is a there is a time and a place for Mick Magic.

Chelle: Right. Yeah, and and be get there's nothing wrong with beginner magic. If you're having a hard time visualizing that bath and getting into a bath makes it easier for you, by all means, please do that. I do that on the regular. I mean, there's nothing there's nothing inherently wrong with that. But But like you said, when it turns into Mick Magic where people expect it to be a shortcut, that's when it's a problem.

Speaker 2: That's what I don't like. It's not that I don't like quick and easy. I don't like shortcut.

Chelle: Right, exactly. Quick and easy is great.

Speaker 2: I don't like shortcut. Yeah.

Chelle: Yeah. Quick and easy, time and place, absolutely. But I don't like shortcut.

Speaker 2: No. No, I agree with you there. If you're using it as a teaching tool and is it something that helps you to reinforce your visualization, you know, that's a very powerful thing to have like for like. But

Chelle: But you gave me an idea. And this is how I can use TikTok to my advantage. Why not take because I am sure you've seen the videos and I mean, these are these like gorgeous claw foot bathtubs set up in the middle of the forest because you know, everybody's got claw foot bathtub in the forest.

Speaker 2: What fact? Oh, ooh. So dark. Oh yeah, I am sure I could just whip one up.

Chelle: Yeah, the flower petals, the herbs, the candles. Why not watch these videos, put yourself in a meditative state, and use the video to visualize your own cleansing? Boom.

Speaker 2: Well, there you go. I think maybe a lot of these people are putting them out for that intention. Maybe they're hoping it's someone

Chelle: And that could be Maybe I'm just a middle-aged old lady just catching up finally, but hey, you know, better late than never.

Speaker 2: I think you're right. There's a lot out there that are just doing it because it's pretty and it you know, it's it's selling. It's popular.

Chelle: Oh, it's aesthetically pleasing like nobody's business.

Speaker 2: Right. And it's very popular right now. So you know, it could be a little of both. I would like to think I hope it's all for the good of all and to harm none, but we 'll see.

Chelle: Right. The new moon is a good time to like mop your kitchen floor.

Speaker 2: Also is coming back to the cleansing, man, like literally cleaning your house.

Chelle: Literally. It's not just a figurative thing. Yeah, it it can be a literal thing.

Speaker 2: Chelle and Laylla say drink your water, cleanse your house, and change your sheets, folks.

Chelle: Yeah, right. And the other thing that I I like is new moons are a good time to to incorporate some candles.

Speaker 2: Oh yeah, I love incorporating candles at any time, incense, candles, love it all.

Chelle: And I think it's more of the bringing the light to the darkness. Does that make sense?

Speaker 2: It does.

Chelle: You're manifesting the light.

Speaker 2: I'm sure.

Chelle: You're You're creating your own destiny. Yeah, the moon is dark and the it you go outside and you can't see shit. So you know what? I'm going to make my own light. I'm going to light that candle and light my own damn way. You know what I'm saying? Like that kind of stuff.

Speaker 2: Yeah. I do. That's great. And then, you know, again, meditation. You can do that new moon, full moon, no moon, big moon, half moon, quarter moon. Always meditate people.

Chelle: Write your intentions down in a journal like you mentioned earlier. It's a great thing to do. And you know, it doesn't have to be an elaborate ritual or a big ritual. It can be a bath. It can be lighting the candles and thinking about your intentions. It can be sitting in ritual space and writing in your journal. It can There's so many things that it can be.

Speaker 2: And I laugh because I see this evolution that we've gone through. I remember the days when you and I had everything had to be high magic. Where's my cord? And oh shit, you know, I need my athame. We were very like the book says we have to do this, like we have to do this. And it kind of transitioned into well, we're going to do it our way. And sometimes we'll have stuff and sometimes we won't. And now here we are 30 years in and we're just like meh, I'm going to write in a journal, take a bath. I I cast a circle. My knee hurts. I can't do that tonight. So I mean, we've gone the evolution of how the high magic piece works, the medium, you know, partially ritualistic and partially on the fly works to now just kind of go with the flow and make it happen and you don't need all the frail draw. But back, you know, back when we were in our early 20s, we thought we needed the frail draw and there was nothing wrong with that.

Chelle: Well, I think in our early 20s we did need all of that because we did not

Speaker 2: We probably did. Yeah.

Chelle: we did not have the experience of of setting intentions, of visualization, of being in a meditative or alpha state and and working through that. We didn't have that experience. And so bringing those items in, you know, having the tools and and using the sigils and and doing everything precisely, there's magic in that itself. And so just by doing those magical things, you can create a magical environment. If you don't If you not able to do it yourself, you can you can walk through the steps and do it. You know?

Speaker 2: Right. I feel that because we had that foundation that we're able to do that now.

Chelle: Sure, yeah.

Speaker 2: Sometimes I

Chelle: It's training. It's it's going through a training. It's going through

Speaker 2: I worry that there's there's folks out there now that think that you can go from nothing to that. And as much as we do do that, we had that foundation.

Chelle: Sure, I I see that a lot on on social media where where witches and practitioners do talk about that fear that they think, you know, people are trying to do this manifestation and like, why is this not working? And it's because they're coming at it from a sense of just making a wish and not really putting in the energy work and the meditative work and the actual real world work behind it. No wish comes true. Okay, very rarely does a wish just come true on its own. There's usually all sorts of work on a magical level, a mental level, and a physical level that happens as well. And if you're not willing to put that work in, that's why your manifestation is not working. It's because you're just making a wish. And those only come true very very rarely on their own.

Speaker 2: Right. And to kind of circle back to our our theme of the of the new moon here, that's exactly what the new moon is. It's time to set your intentions and start doing the work. You have to do the work. This just isn't I'm going to wish for somebody to fall in love with me and then I wake up tomorrow and somebody fell in love with me.

Chelle: Your new moon fairy godmother does not want to just snap her fingers. She wants to see you doing the work, bitch. And then she'll snap her fingers to make the rest of it happen.

Speaker 2: Right. And the new moon is when you start making you you start doing your work. Do your work. That's what the new moon is supposed to be teaching you.

Chelle: Yes. Start that work so that you can enlighten the fullness of the full moon. You can reap those rewards, whether the small the small ones of the small cycles or the bigger ones of a longer cycle you've been working towards.

Speaker 2: Right. So it it it just comes down to nothing comes easy, folks. Shit don't get handed to you on a silver platter. You got to do the dirty work. We all do. And we're just pointing out that the new moon is when you should start it.

Chelle: Yep. And at the dark of the moon, that's when you go in. Things are not pretty. It's not looking nice out there. January is not Okay, it isn't California, but well, not right now. But most of the time, January is not a pretty month. It is not nice out there. It's called the stay at home moon for a reason. And so the dark of this moon, not pretty. But that just means you need to dig in a little further, dig in a little deeper and start that work so that you can enjoy beltane, so that you can enjoy the full moon in June. But you got to start it now.

Speaker 2: Right. Right. And you know, I just want to point out, you know, if you didn't think you already had problems, Aquarius and the moon are at odds during this January new moon.

Chelle: Oh fun. So what does that mean for Aquarius Shell? I'm asking for oh me and several thousand other people. We would like to know.

Speaker 2: That's why I wanted to point this out because you are my my my best Aquarius friend. So Aquarius is need space to think. Obviously, as you're well aware, this is like probably the most cerebral sign. And the moon isn't happy with you, folks.

Chelle: Oh, what did I do to piss off the moon now?

Speaker 2: This January new moon kind of wants that I want to cuddle and process and share secrets and blankets and you know, watch some movies on Netflix, cry on your shoulder.

Chelle: Um that sounds like an amazing winter evening. Uh duh. What's wrong with that?

Speaker 2: Because that's the moon's current vibe. And right now the Aquarius current vibe is like, all right, you're eating cold fries, bitch, from a brown bag, yo. Like I ain't giving you shit. You ain't getting cuddled. I I I'm just going to do you dirty and throw you aside and I ain't kissing you when I'm done.

Chelle: Oh fuck. Actually, that's true. This whole month I have been very self-centered. I've been very much like I just want to do my own thing. Damn, did you just not read me for fucking filth?

Speaker 2: Well,

Chelle: What the hell?

Speaker 2: Blame it on the moon. That's all I could tell you, man.

Chelle: Whatever. Whatever.

Speaker 2: You Aquarius folks, to all our Aquarian listeners as well as Laylla, I'm targeting you all. You and the moon are just having a battle this month.

Chelle: I got it.

Speaker 2: You and each other. You're you're you're not vibing.

Chelle: I guess not. I guess I'm going to need to kind of meditate and maybe do some journaling and get to the bottom of all of it. If I figure it out, I'll let you know.

Speaker 2: Which is so weird. Which is so weird because you're a water sign. Like

Chelle: Air sign. Air sign. Aquarians are air signs.

Speaker 2: All right, really? I thought they were water.

Chelle: Well, it a lot of people think so. Aquarius, we are the water bearer, but we are an air sign.

Speaker 2: How can you be a water bearer and an air sign?

Chelle: Why do you think we have so much trouble? Why do you think we're so messed up?

Speaker 2: And that's your issue this month. So that's your issue for the new moon to all of you Aquarius folks.

Chelle: There you go. There you go. Your astrological ass kicking from Shell.

Speaker 2: So yeah, good luck. That's all I got to say.

Chelle: Yeah, your astrological ass kicking from Shell for the month of January. Thanks.

Speaker 2: You know, I'm just I I'm on a roll here between between what we talked about last time with my my cursing issues. You know this, you know.

Chelle: Check it out on YouTube and also on our Instagram if you want to see the clip. It's quite funny. Art by Chaos Art.

Speaker 2: So yeah, you know, I'm just I'm just full of great like little magical tips and tricks here.

Chelle: There you go. I love it. Awesome. Now

Speaker 2: One One last thing I wanted to mention about the tarot is um I am trying this new moon spread, new moon tarot spread, three card spread.

Chelle: Oh, what does it look like Shell? Tell me. I love a new spread.

Speaker 2: So I've got different podcasts, folks.

Chelle: I love a new tarot spread. What does it look like Shell?

Speaker 2: Three card spread. But you know, I don't like to be normal and do things side by side. So it's kind of a top card, a card kind of off center below, and then the bottom card, kind of like a one, two, three.

Chelle: Oh, like a crescent moon. So you start at the top, go to the middle, and then go to the bottom in the shape of three cards in the shape almost like a crescent moon.

Speaker 2: Basically, even though I'm calling it a new moon spread.

Chelle: Okay. Okay. You know, just kind of a you know, what are you working on? What do you need to do to be able to get to that end? And what's the hidden outcome of this? Because there's always there's always that yeah, but.

Speaker 2: So the first card, the top of the crescent is what are you working on? The middle card of the crescent is what do you need to do to get to that goal? And then the bottom crescent.

Chelle: The hidden outcome.

Speaker 2: What is the hidden outcome? Not the actual outcome, but what is the hidden outcome? Like what might you not even be seeing that's going to come. Ooh, that's a very new moon, dark moon kind of reading. I love it.

Chelle: Because Well, and you you know, you actually just stole my thunder, jerk, because it's the whole dark moon. What piece of this puzzle am I not getting? Right. What I'm not seeing. What's not in front of me? What's not what what's not completely evident to my vision? You know what I'm saying?

Speaker 2: Right. What Sometimes and I am so fucking guilty of this. We have a goal in mind and we are so single-mindedly headed towards that goal that we don't always know what the actual outcome is going to be. We we have blinders on. We think we know what's going to happen, but sometimes we get to that goal and the outcome is very very different than we expected. And so having a reading that's going to show you that hidden outcome that maybe you should be paying attention to that, but you're not, that'd be very useful for someone like me who tends to get tunnel vision very very easily when I want something. or when I'm working towards something.

Chelle: And the problem is is when you get tunnel vision, you forget about the but this could happen, but if this happens, this could happen. So yeah.

Speaker 2: Right, those hidden and unexpected outcomes fabulous. Oh, I love that spread, Shell. Great idea.

Chelle: Actually actually, I do actually recommend that you try it. You should try it and maybe do it for like two or three months and journal your outcomes, see if it works for you.

Speaker 2: I'm definitely going to try it. You know, we did that reading last time and uh this looked like it was going to be a month of working on things. So I think I'm going to just kind of keep going with that and see where it gets my Aquarius ask.

Chelle: I think the biggest point um throughout all of this is manifestation, manifestation, manifestation. What do you want to manifest? What are you able to manifest? And how are you going to manifest it? Whether you're taking a bath, doing a tarot spread, crying to the moon, however you want to do it, what are you trying to manifest and how are you getting to that end?

Speaker 2: What work are you going to put into that manifestation? Don't just don't just dream it. You have to actually do it. You have to you have to put that work in there. So you know, on this new moon, don't just make those wishes. What work are you going to put into it? What magical work? What real world work are you going to put into it so that you can get those dreams and get those goals? And for for me and I think for you this year, Chelle, a lot of those goals revolve around being more magical, more witchy, more involved in the community. So I'm excited about that and seeing where that kind of takes us.

Chelle: Absolutely. And you know, I think one problem that you and I have always had, and I know that a lot of our listeners probably do as well is, you know, sometimes going from the idea to the actual doing is a tough bridge to cross for you and I especially. Sometimes we can get very hermity, very antisocial.

Speaker 2: Yeah, and fighting against that inertia is difficult.

Chelle: It is. It is. And I think that both of us without even without even kind of coordinating it, we had both kind of committed to ourselves to kind of put ourselves out there more this coming year. And that takes work. That takes work.

Speaker 2: Yep. Yeah. And we've already started working on that and manifesting that and I've I've started to see some inklings of what that might mean for us and I'm pretty excited about this year and all the changes that are going to come. So I wish that for all of you that, you know, good things come for you this year and that you're able to put in the work to realize all your dreams.

Chelle: And for those of you who have asked us if we're ever going to go out into the world and do do meet and greets with our fans and and and and let you see us in person and live, that's one of the things Laylla and I are trying to manifest this year. You know, we're we're looking to go to some some different conferences and some events and some festivals and

Speaker 2: Oh my gosh, that would be so much fun. I you've met a few of our fans. I would absolutely love to meet some of our fans. We got to meet some fans online. I love that part of this and I can't wait to do more of it. I'm so excited.

Chelle: So we're manifesting our stuff. What are you guys manifesting? And if you have any cool new moon ideas, rituals, spells, whatever the case may be, and you want to share them or you want us to read your ritual online or your spell online, email it to us. We're interested. We want to hear about all your new moon traditions. We want to hear about your full moon traditions too. Let us know what tickles your magical fancy. Get us at the stone witches hour at gmail.com.

Speaker 2: Or check out at stone witches hour on Instagram.

Chelle: We just want to hear from you guys. We want to see what you're up to magically. I'm always interested in what people are doing magically. And you know, you got any questions, you know, you need any tips or tricks, we'll see what we can do to guide you. Just shoot us an email.

Speaker 2: And we will catch you next time for the full moon in February on the stone witches hour lunar wheel of the year.

Chelle: Stay witchy.
